# Places H

[Overview](Lore_Places.md) | [A](Lore_Places_A.md) [B](Lore_Places_B.md) [C](Lore_Places_C.md) [D](Lore_Places_D.md) [E](Lore_Places_E.md) [F](Lore_Places_F.md) [G](Lore_Places_G.md) H [I](Lore_Places_I.md) [J](Lore_Places_J.md) [K](Lore_Places_K.md) [L](Lore_Places_L.md) [M](Lore_Places_M.md) [N](Lore_Places_N.md) [O](Lore_Places_O.md) [P](Lore_Places_P.md) [Q](Lore_Places_Q.md) [R](Lore_Places_R.md) [S](Lore_Places_S.md) [T](Lore_Places_T.md) [U](Lore_Places_U.md) [V](Lore_Places_V.md) [W](Lore_Places_W.md) [X](Lore_Places_X.md) [Y](Lore_Places_Y.md) [Z](Lore_Places_Z.md) | [Maps](Lore_Maps.md)
---

## Haafingar
[Haafingar](Lore_Haafingar.md) (also called **Haafingar Hold** and the **Kingdom of Solitude**) is a relatively small, mountainous, coastal [hold](Lore_Hold.md) in northwestern [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). Its capital is the famed city of [Solitude](Lore_Solitude.md), and the two are sometimes treated as one and the same. Solitude is perched atop a large rock outcropping known as the [Great Arch](Lore_Great_Arch.md), towering high above the Solitude Inlet, which is found at the end of the [Karth River](Lore_Karth_River.md) and the massive Karth delta. However, Haafingar is far more than just Solitude. The Karth River allows for a great deal of commerce in Solitude and the town of [Dragon Bridge](Lore_Dragon_Bridge.md) in the [Karth River Forest](Lore_Karth_River_Forest.md) (mostly in timber and fish), and the long [Giant's Coastline](Lore_Giant%27s_Coast.md) with the [Sea of Ghosts](Lore_Sea_of_Ghosts.md) is littered with frozen shipwrecks and treasures. [Mount Kilkreath](Lore_Mount_Kilkreath.md) and its associated mountains take a large portion of the hold and it is filled with caves and ruins where bandits and creatures make their homes.

The hold shares borders with two other holds, [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md) to the south and [Hjaalmarch](Lore_Hjaalmarch.md) to the southeast, and the province of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md) borders it to the west, the [Forgotten Vale](Lore_Forgotten_Vale.md) found between the hold and [Wrothgar](Lore_Wrothgar.md). The [mountains of Haafingar](Lore_Haafingar_Mountains.md) are only the tapered end of the [Druadach Mountains](Lore_Druadach_Mountains.md), an enormous range of jagged mountain peaks to the south which rise up among the clouds of the Reach.

## Hackdirt
[Hackdirt](Lore_Hackdirt.md) is an isolated settlement located deep in the [Great Forest](Lore_Great_Forest.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), far south of [Chorrol](Lore_Chorrol.md).

## Haj Uxith
[Haj Uxith](Lore_Haj_Uxith.md) (translating to *"Hidden Nest"* in [Jel](Lore_Jel.md)) is an [Argonian](Lore_Argonian.md) city found with the depths of [Coldharbour](Lore_Coldharbour.md), a plane of [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md). Haj Uxith comes from a time in Argonian civilization that came before the events known as [Duskfall](Lore_Duskfall.md). In order to escape it, the [Hist](Lore_Hist.md) had made a pact with [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md), which took the settlement into his realm, where the Hist would be harvested by the [Daedra](Lore_Daedra.md). A motto that the Argonians of Haj Uxith follow is to preserve the culture that their Hist attempted to keep safe.

## Hakoshae
[Hakoshae](Lore_Hakoshae.md) (also known as **Valley Guard**) is a settlement found in the region of [Anequina](Lore_Anequina.md), within the province of [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md). It is neighbored by several settlements, including [Rimmen](Lore_Rimmen.md) to the north, Darkarn Place to the southwest, and [Alabaster](Lore_Alabaster.md) in the southeast.

It is one of the few villages across Northern Elsweyr that was built by the [Akaviri](Lore_Akaviri.md) refugees that fled to Elsweyr following the death of Potentate [Savirien-Chorak](Lore_Savirien-Chorak.md) in [2E 430](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_430). Hakoshae is an isolated and quiet community that promotes their Akaviri background with pride. It is populated by [Rim-Men](Lore_Rim-Men.md) who descend from the Akaviri refugees.

## Halcyon Lake
[Halcyon Lake](Lore_Halcyon_Lake.md) (also called **Lake Bjoulsae**) is a lake on the [Bjoulsae River](Lore_Bjoulsae_River.md) situated in eastern [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md), in the [Mournoth](Lore_Mournoth.md) region of northern [Bangkorai](Lore_Bangkorai.md). The city of [Evermore](Lore_Evermore.md) is not far to the southwest. There is a prominent island in the middle of the lake.

Half-submerged near the island are the ruins of [Bisnensel](Lore_Bisnensel.md), an [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) city founded by [Laloriaran Dynar](Lore_Laloriaran_Dynar.md), the Last King of the Ayleids, in the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md). However, he was forced out by a growing cult of [Hermaeus Mora](Lore_Hermaeus_Mora.md), which occupied the ruins for some time afterwards. As the desertification of Bangkorai spread north, the lake was destined to dry up. In [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), a local [nereid](Lore_Nereid.md) attempted to avoid this fate by stealing the memories of mortals to create a Water Stone, much to the displeasure of Hermaeus Mora. It is unknown if she succeeded in her plans.

## Hale
[Hale](Lore_Hale_(settlement).md) is a village in the [Mania](Lore_Mania.md) region of the [Shivering Isles](Lore_Shivering_Isles.md). It lies along the northern coast, southeast of the Isle of Flame and just north of the ruins of [Milchar](Lore_Milchar.md).

Circa [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433), the occupants were mostly a collection of artists. A [Knight of the Thorn](Lore_Knights_of_the_Thorn.md) named Pyke settled here after entering the Shivering Isles through the newly-opened Strange Door in [Niben Bay](Lore_Niben_Bay.md).

## Hallin's Stand
[Hallin's Stand](Lore_Hallin%27s_Stand.md), formerly known as **Ojwambu**, is a city in southwestern [Bangkorai](Lore_Bangkorai.md) in [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md). It lies in a desert region known as the [Fallen Wastes](Lore_Fallen_Wastes.md). The river from Nilata Falls feed into the Sacred Springs surrounding the city. A large number of ruins are found nearby, such as the [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid_Ruins.md) Nilata Ruins to the north, the [Yokudan](Lore_Yokuda.md) Qharroa Ruins to the northeast, the Telesubi Ruins to the east, and [Hall of Heroes](Lore_Hall_of_Heroes.md) to the southeast, and [Dwarven](Lore_Dwemer_Ruins.md) Razak's Wheel to the south.

## The Halls of Colossus
The [Halls of Colossus](Lore_Halls_of_Colossus.md) (or **Colossus Halls**) is an ancient set of ruins found in the province of [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md), deep in the reaches of the region of [Pellitine](Lore_Pellitine.md). It overlooks the [Great Divide](Lore_Great_Divide.md), a stretch of road that runs along the [Quin'rawl Peninsula](Lore_Quin%27rawl_Peninsula.md). These ancient ruins have existed in the area long before recorded history, with no indication of who built them, or why. But as the eras go by, the Halls of Colossus was used to contain ancient [weapons](Lore_Weapons.md), from [Numidium](Lore_Numidium.md), to a piece of the [Staff of Chaos](Lore_Staff_of_Chaos.md).

## Hammerfell
[Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), once known as **Hegathe**, the **Deathland** (or **Deathlands**), and **Volenfell**, is a region in the west of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). It has been described as a province, kingdom, or republic throughout its history. Situated between [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), and [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md), Hammerfell features diverse landscapes including beaches, jungles, grasslands, mountains, swamps, and the vast [Alik'r](Lore_Alik%27r.md) desert. It is inhabited by the human race of [Redguards](Lore_Redguard.md), who migrated to Tamriel following the partial sinking of their homeland, [Yokuda](Lore_Yokuda.md).

## Harlun's Watch
[Harlun's Watch](Lore_Harlun%27s_Watch.md) is a settlement located in the [Nibenay Basin](Lore_Nibenay_Basin.md) to the south of [Cheydinhal](Lore_Cheydinhal.md), in the [Cheydinhal Foothills](Lore_Cheydinhal_Foothills.md) region.

## Harm's Folly
[Harm's Folly](Lore_Harm%27s_Folly.md) is a small farming settlement located in [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), far to the northwest of [Cheydinhal](Lore_Cheydinhal.md). It is located on the foothills of the [Jerall Mountains](Lore_Jerall_Mountains.md), in a region of the [Great Forest](Lore_Great_Forest.md) which has been cleared for agriculture around [Lake Rumare](Lore_Lake_Rumare.md).

## Harstrad River
The [Harstrad River](Lore_Harstrad_River.md) is a river in northern [Solstheim](Lore_Solstheim.md) which empties into the [Sea of Ghosts](Lore_Sea_of_Ghosts.md) along the northeastern coast of the island.

Before the [Red Year](Lore_Red_Year.md) of [4E 5](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_5), the Harstrad river formed the eastern boundary of the [Moesring Mountains](Lore_Moesring_Mountains.md) on the island of [Solstheim](Lore_Solstheim.md). It sprung up near the center of the island and flowed north, merging with the [Isild River](Lore_Isild_River.md) in the [Isinfier Plains](Lore_Isinfier_Plains.md) and then out into the Sea of Ghosts. The Wind Stone was located on its western shore, the Tree Stone was near its headwaters, and its banks were dotted with barrows and [snow wolves](Lore_Snow_Wolf.md).

The cataclysms of the Red Year substantially changed the landscape of Solstheim. The delta of the river has moved a little northeast, and the Wind Stone is now located on its eastern shore. The body of the river was substantially truncated, as the headwaters, now inhabited by [Spriggans](Lore_Spriggan.md), emerge further north on the island. When the fungal tower of [Tel Mithryn](Lore_Tel_Mithryn.md) began suffering a serious malady in [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201), [taproot](Lore_Taproot.md) soaked in the headwaters of the river was used to heal the living building.

## Hatching Pools
The [Hatching Pools](Lore_Hatching_Pools.md) is a settlement in central [Shadowfen](Lore_Shadowfen.md), deep in the province of [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md). It is named for the pools of [Hist Sap](Lore_Hist_Sap.md) found beneath the great [Hist](Lore_Hist.md) tree located here. These pools are used by the [Argonians](Lore_Argonian.md) of Shadowfen, who leave their eggs beneath the Hist tree to incubate. The Hist tree is tended to by the Keepers of the Shell, who also act as midwives for the unborn Argonians and preside over their hatching ritual.

## Hattu Mountain
[Hattu Mountain](Lore_Hattu_Mountain.md), sometimes called **Mount Hattu** or "**the Father of Mountains**", is a mountain in the [High Desert](Lore_High_Desert.md) province of [Yokuda](Lore_Yokuda.md). It was notable for its [onyx](Lore_Onyx.md) reserves and for being the place where [Frandar Hunding](Lore_Frandar_Hunding.md) wrote the [Book of Circles](Lore_Book_of_Circles.md). Shortly after, a bloody conflict known as the [War of the Singers](Lore_War_of_the_Singers.md) took place at the foot of the mountain. The mountain was inhabited by Hunding zealots during the mid-Second era.

## Haven
[Haven](Lore_Haven.md) is one of the eight major cities in the province of [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md), located on the stormy waters of the [Long Coast](Lore_Long_Coast.md). Haven is an important trading post and port city that has changed hands constantly over the course of years, from the [Imperials](Lore_Imperial.md) to the [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md). It is considered the gateway into [Grahtwood](Lore_Grahtwood.md), the greater region of southeast Valenwood and it is also a key link in the Lane, a major sea route that runs along Tamriel's southwest coast. Haven acquired its name because it seems to be a safe place in a dangerous world.

## Havoc Wellhead
The [Havoc Wellhead](Lore_Havoc_Wellhead.md) (sometimes styled Havok Wellhead) is a realm of Oblivion controlled by many Daedric clans in the service of Mehrunes Dagon. It acts as one of Dagon's many provincial governmental centers. It was accessible from the Battlespire, but the connection was lost after its destruction during the Imperial Simulacrum.

## Haynote Cave
[Haynote Cave](Lore_Haynote_Cave.md) is a natural cave network found in the [Great Forest](Lore_Great_Forest.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), north of [Ceyatatar](Lore_Ceyatatar.md). The lower levels of the complex are known as the Basin Galleries. The lowest tunnels are referred to as the Winding Sump and are partially flooded.

## Heartlands
The [Heartlands](Lore_Heartlands.md) (also known as the **Valley Heartland**) are the central lowlands of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md); a grassland region surrounding [Lake Rumare](Lore_Lake_Rumare.md), as well as the [Upper Niben](Lore_Upper_Niben.md) and [Niben Bay](Lore_Niben_Bay.md). At its center is the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md), the largest settlement in the province and the seat of Empires, from the original [Ayleid Empire](Lore_Ayleid_Empire.md) to the [Cyrodilic Empires](Lore_Empire.md) of [Man](Lore_Man.md).

## Hectahame
[Hectahame](Lore_Hectahame.md) ([Ayleidoon](Lore_Ayleidoon.md) for *"Home of the Exiles"* and also called the **[Heart of Valenwood](Lore_Heart_of_Valenwood.md)**) is a large and expansive [Ayleid ruin](Lore_Ayleid_Ruins.md) found in the evergreen jungles of [Greenshade](Lore_Greenshade.md), in the province of [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md). Built deep in the vales of [Green's Marrow](Lore_Green%27s_Marrow.md), it contains the Heart of the Valenwood, an ancient tree that represents the physical embodiment of the forest's soul and lifeblood. The local [Wood Elves](Lore_Wood_Elves.md) view these ruins with superstition and awe, both fearing the past and venerating the Heart for its life energy. It was built by the [Ayleids](Lore_Ayleids.md), possibly for those that lived in the [White-Gold Tower](Lore_White-Gold_Tower.md).

## Hegathe
[Hegathe](Lore_Hegathe.md) (also called **Old Hegathe**) is one of the eight major cities in the province of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), found in the forests of the tropical western shore landings of the [Abecean Sea](Lore_Abecean_Sea.md). Hegathe was once the capital of Hammerfell, ever since the [Ra Gada](Lore_Ra_Gada.md) landed on its shores in [1E 808](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_808) until it was moved to the north, in the [Kingdom of Sentinel](Lore_Sentinel_(kingdom).md). It is known for its austere ramparts that harken back to antiquity, and is considered an equal to [Wayrest](Lore_Wayrest.md) in terms of splendor. The name originally referred to the wastelands that was later designated as Hammerfell, deriving from the [Aldmeri](Lore_Ehlnofex_Languages.md) word for *"Deathland"*. Despite the meaning of the name, the entire peninsula that the city itself is found upon is a lush subtropical rainforest biome, reaching as far north as [Abibon-Gora](Lore_Abibon-Gora.md) and as far east as [Khefrem](Lore_Khefrem.md).

## Heimlyn Keep
[Heimlyn Keep](Lore_Heimlyn_Keep.md) (sometimes simply called **Heimlyn**) is a fortified settlement built on a mesa overlooking the [Zabamat](Lore_Zabamat.md) region in the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). Despite its location far from their main settlements, it is a foothold owned by [House Telvanni](Lore_House_Telvanni.md) in central Morrowind. The town serves primarily as a research center where they study ancient [magic](Lore_Magic.md), weapons, and relics that are too dangerous for circulation. These items are stored in a reliquary underneath it and its guardians have been ages ago from their knowledge.

## Hel Ra Citadel
[Hel Ra Citadel](Lore_Hel_Ra_Citadel.md) (or the **Citadel of Hel Ra**) is a [Yokudan](Lore_Yokudan.md) fortress found in the [Dragontail Mountains](Lore_Dragontail_Mountains.md) of southwest [Craglorn](Lore_Craglorn.md), south of [Dragonstar](Lore_Dragonstar.md) in the province of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md). Originally a [Nedic](Lore_Nede.md) fort captured by Yokudans, Hel Ra was one of the easternmost of the [Ra Gada](Lore_Ra_Gada.md) domains, and one of the few to survive into modernity. It grips the sheer side of a tall mountain, and once oversaw a nearby Yokudan city. Sealed by ancient methods for thousands of years, Hel Ra Citadel long remained a revered remnant of "old Yokuda" in Hammerfell. It was re-opened and briefly occupied by [the Celestial Warrior](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:The_Warrior_(Celestial)) and the re-awakened [Anka-Ra](Lore_Anka-Ra.md) during the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md), until they were vanquished by the [Undaunted](Lore_Undaunted.md).

## Helgen
[Helgen](Lore_Helgen.md), referred to as the "Gateway to the North" due to the many travelers who visited while coming from [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) to the south, was a fortified hamlet located east-northeast of the city of [Falkreath](Lore_Falkreath.md), south of [Riverwood](Lore_Riverwood.md), and north of [Pale Pass](Lore_Pale_Pass.md).

The rather small "backwater hovel" was guarded by a wooden wall and the slopes of the mountains it was nestled in, and surrounded a large fort known as Helgen Keep. The Keep held a barracks for Imperial troops, a torture room, and led into a series of caves that traveled north into the wilderness.

## Heljarchen
[Heljarchen](Lore_Heljarchen.md) (also called **Helarchen Creek**) is a historical settlement located in the region known as [the Pale](Lore_The_Pale.md), within the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). It is found on the edge of the Pale, where the mountains descend into the great plains of [Whiterun Hold](Lore_Whiterun_Hold.md). By the [Fourth Era](Lore_Fourth_Era.md) the original settlement had been abandoned and a private homestead known as **Heljarchen Hall** was constructed on the land.

During the [Imperial Simulacrum](Lore_Imperial_Simulacrum.md) in the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), the village of Helarchen Creek was an active settlement, being ruled by Lady Ingte. It had a rivalry with [Laintar Dale](Lore_Laintar_Dale.md) and Dunpar Wall. It was neighbored by several settlements, including [Dawnstar](Lore_Dawnstar.md) to the northwest, Dunpar Wall to the southwest, and [Winterhold](Lore_Winterhold_(city).md) to the northeast.

By [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201), the area had become entirely abandoned. The jarl of Dawnstar offered to sell the land to the [Last Dragonborn](Lore_Last_Dragonborn.md) as a private estate for the purpose of constructing a homestead and [wheat](Lore_Wheat.md) mill known as Heljarchen Hall.

## Helkarn
[Helkarn](Lore_Helkarn.md) (also called **Helkarn Land**) is a settlement located on the edge of [Anequina](Lore_Anequina.md), in the province of [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md). Though now it is a simple village located in the heart of Elsweyr, it was originally one of the [sixteen kingdoms](Lore_Sixteen_Kingdoms.md), known for its expert [shepherds](Lore_Sheep.md) and herders. Its people bred the [Helkarn Wolf](Lore_Helkarn_Wolf.md), which is considered by some to be the province's finest wolf mount.

## Helland
[Helland](Lore_Helland.md) (or **North Hall**) is a town found in south-central [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), found in between the city-states of [Taneth](Lore_Taneth.md), [Rihad](Lore_Rihad.md), and [Elinhir](Lore_Elinhir.md).

## Helnim Wall
[Helnim Wall](Lore_Helnim_Wall.md) is a settlement located in the [Indoril District](Lore_House_Indoril.md) of eastern [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md), which is in the jurisdiction of the Great [House Indoril](Lore_House_Indoril.md). It is near the [Inner Sea](Lore_Inner_Sea.md) and south of the city of [Firewatch](Lore_Firewatch.md). The terrain around it is made up of badlands.

## Helstrom
[Helstrom](Lore_Helstrom.md) is one of the eight major cities in the province of [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md), located in the reputedly inhospitable center of the province called [Middle Argonia](Lore_Middle_Argonia.md). Many consider Helstrom the immortal capital of the [Argonians](Lore_Argonians.md). Located in the interior of Black Marsh, which is generally held to be "impenetrable" by non-Argonian armies, the city itself is notorious for its perilous reputation and the city's guard is reportedly dangerous.

## Heretic's Horn
A peninsula south of [New Sheoth](Lore_New_Sheoth.md), in the [Dementia](Lore_Dementia_(place).md) region of the [Shivering Isles](Lore_Shivering_Isles.md). [Deepwallow](Lore_Deepwallow.md) can be found along its marshy inland coast, while the [Howling Halls](Lore_Howling_Halls.md) were built atop the central mountain range that runs the length of the peninsula. Named for the [Heretics](Lore_Heretics.md).

## Herne
[Herne](Lore_Herne_(island).md) is an island off the west coast of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), north of [Cespar](Lore_Cespar.md). It is most notable for acting as the temporary refuge for the [Yokudan](Lore_Yokuda.md) nobility, known as the [Na-Totambu](Lore_Na-Totambu.md), during the [Ra Gada](Lore_Ra_Gada.md) exodus to [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) in the early [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md).

Although some sources claim Herne was uninhabited before their arrival, others claim that it was inhabited by a tribe of [Nedes](Lore_Nede.md), led by a warchief named Haakon. The Nedes had successfully repulsed many attacks by elves prior to the arrival of the Yokudans, but the Ra Gada ultimately exterminated them.

After the loss of [Eyevea](Lore_Eyevea.md) to the [Mages Guild](Lore_Mages_Guild.md) in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), [Sheogorath](Lore_Sheogorath.md) considered bringing Herne to the [Shivering Isles](Lore_Shivering_Isles.md), but it was not the right shape. The island was considered by the [Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md) to be Hammerfell's territory in [3E 427](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_427).

## Hew's Bane
[Hew's Bane](Lore_Hew%27s_Bane.md), originally known as **Khefrem's Boot**, is a peninsula in southern [Khefrem](Lore_Khefrem.md) on the south coast of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md). The largest settlement on the Peninsula is the city of [Abah's Landing](Lore_Abah%27s_Landing.md). It is bounded by [Hew's Bay](Lore_Hew%27s_Bay.md) to the north and east, across the [Abecean Sea](Lore_Abecean_Sea.md) from [Taneth](Lore_Taneth.md). The peninsula starts at the isthmus found south of [Gilane](Lore_Gilane.md) and north of Prince's Gate. There are a number of small islands found south of Shark's Teeth Grotto.

The region is named after Prince [Hubalajad](Lore_Hubalajad.md), or "Prince Hew", who was the first to attempt to settle the Peninsula, in the early days of the [Ra Gada](Lore_Ra_Gada.md). He discovered a barren peninsula hostile to most life; scorching heat and seasonal flooding led to brackish water and ground which was unsuitable for crops. His struggles during the founding of Abah's Landing gave Hew's Bane its name.

The peninsula is home to exotic species such as the [kotu gava](Lore_Kotu_Gava.md) and [haj mota](Lore_Haj_Mota.md), as well as more mundane creatures like [lions](Lore_Lion.md), [lamia](Lore_Lamia.md), and [assassin beetles](Lore_Assassin_Beetle.md). The sight of a Senche-Serval in Khefrem is a sign of good luck, so people tend to capture several of them to get a streak of fortune, and even train them to become mounts.

## Hew's Bay
[Hew's Bay](Lore_Hew%27s_Bay.md) (formerly known as **Hubalajad's Bay**) is the body of water that encompasses south-central [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), around the eastern coast of [Hew's Bane](Lore_Hew%27s_Bane.md) and the cities of [Abah's Landing](Lore_Abah%27s_Landing.md) and [Taneth](Lore_Taneth.md). It is named after Prince [Hubalajad](Lore_Hubalajad.md), the [Yokudan](Lore_Yokudan.md) noble that founded the aforementioned region of Hew's Bane, but his efforts throughout the years ended in failure and tarnished his name.

## High Desert
[High Desert](Lore_High_Desert.md) is a province of [Yokuda](Lore_Yokuda.md), known for its towering mountains rich in [onyx](Lore_Onyx.md) deposits, and vast deserts. One of its more remote desert regions was called [Hunding](Lore_Hunding_(region).md).

## High Hrothgar
[High Hrothgar](Lore_High_Hrothgar.md) (named for the region of [Hrothgar](Lore_Hrothgar.md)) is a secluded monastery, perched atop the highest peak in [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), the [Throat of the World](Lore_Throat_of_the_World.md). Here reside the few members of the ancient order of the [Greybeards](Lore_Greybeards.md), who endeavor to become more attuned to the [voice of the sky](Lore_Thu%27um.md). [Jurgen Windcaller](Lore_Jurgen_Windcaller.md), after his defeat at Red Mountain and subsequent meditation, built his home at High Hrothgar and founded the order to study the Thu'um in peace. The Nords believe that they were created by [Kyne](Lore_Kyne.md) when the sky breathed onto the peak of this mountain, and many journey up the seven thousand steps on pilgrimages. Few are granted access to its halls as they must be deemed worthy by the Greybeards first (notable examples including [Grundwulf](Lore_Grundwulf.md), [Jorunn](Lore_Jorunn.md), [Tiber Septim](Lore_Tiber_Septim.md), [Ulfric Stormcloak](Lore_Ulfric_Stormcloak.md), and the [Last Dragonborn](Lore_Hero.md)). Most who are accepted are then trained in the [Way of the Voice](Lore_Way_of_the_Voice.md). Some can also receive the [Clever Man](Lore_Clever_Men.md) training at Hrothgar, linking the arts and philosophy of Greybeards with clever craft.

## High Isle
[High Isle](Lore_High_Isle.md) is the largest island of [the Systres](Lore_The_Systres.md) archipelago, far to the southwest of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md) and northwest of [Summerset Isle](Lore_Summerset_Isle.md). High Isle serves as the center of politics and commerce for the island chain, predominantly from the port city of [Gonfalon Bay](Lore_Gonfalon_Bay.md) and the Dufort Shipyards. High Isle is the southernmost island of the archipelago as well as the most populated. It is known for its idyllic and vibrant summer landscape and its friendly population. On its southeast coast is the largest city in the region, [Gonfalon Bay](Lore_Gonfalon_Bay.md) and deep in its interior is a basin that houses the All Flags Harbor, where the many captains of the eponymous [naval fleet](Lore_All_Flags_Navy.md) gathered for their incursion of [Thras](Lore_Thras.md). High Isle, like the rest of the archipelago, is volcanic, and there are plenty of steam vents, hot springs, and other such features in the island's back country. The southern half of High Isle is the Sapphire Coast, while the northern is Oakenvald.

## High Rock
[High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md) is a province in northwestern [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). Most of the province is inhabited by the [Bretons](Lore_Breton.md), who have divided the province into multiple Breton city states and minor kingdoms. High Rock has also historically contained [Orsinium](Lore_Orsinium.md), the City-State of the [Orcs](Lore_Orc.md). High Rock encompasses the many lands and clans of [Greater Bretony](Lore_Greater_Bretony.md), the [Dellese Isles](Lore_Dellese_Isles.md), the [Bjoulsae River](Lore_Bjoulsae_River.md) [tribes](Lore_River_Horse_Bretons.md), and, by tradition, the [Western Reach](Lore_Western_Reach.md). The [Direnni](Lore_Direnni.md) once controlled the entire province until the dissolution of their [Hegemony](Lore_Direnni_Hegemony.md) in the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md), leaving behind many ruins and a lasting legacy on the newly formed Breton city-states in their wake. The rugged highland strongholds and isolated valley settlements have encouraged the fierce independence of the various local Breton clans, resisting integration into a formal province or [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) identity. Nonetheless, their language, bardic traditions, and heroic legends are a unifying legacy. Aside from the Bretons and their ancestors, other races that have inhabited the province include [centaurs](Lore_Centaur.md), [giants](Lore_Giant.md), [goblins](Lore_Goblin.md), Orcs, and [Snow Elves](Lore_Snow_Elf.md).

## Highcross
[Highcross](Lore_Highcross.md) is a village in the [Mania](Lore_Mania.md) region of the [Shivering Isles](Lore_Shivering_Isles.md). It lies roughly at the northernmost section of The Jester's Spine.

In [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433), the occupants were an eccentric bunch. For example, Bruscus Dannus concerned himself with nothing other than cleaning the road that ran through the settlement. Another eccentric resident was Runs-in-Circles, an [Argonian](Lore_Argonian.md) whose very name gives enough explanation as to her erratic and often comical behavior.

The [Hero of Kvatch](Lore_Hero_of_Kvatch.md) was tasked by one of the village residents, Mirili Ulven, with luring various creatures back to Highcross so that she could capture and study them.

## Hightide Keep
[Hightide Keep](Lore_Hightide_Keep.md) is an [ancient ruin](Lore_Elven_Ruins.md) on the [Blue Divide](Lore_Blue_Divide.md)'s shores, in the province of the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md). It was once a massive and heavily manned fortress that defended [Skywatch](Lore_Skywatch.md) but was destroyed during the [Sack of Skywatch](Lore_Sack_of_Skywatch.md) in [1E 1301](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_1301). Now it is a shambling ruin hidden under the city's promontory. Hightide Keep was originally built by the [Ancients](Lore_Ancients.md), the [Aldmer](Lore_Aldmer.md) ancestors of the modern-day [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md) of [Auridon](Lore_Auridon.md).

## Highwinter Castle
An abandoned castle located within the [Bloodfall Kingdom](Lore_Bloodfall_Kingdom.md), near [Rivercrest](Lore_Rivercrest.md). It is teeming with [goblins](Lore_Goblin.md) and [skeevers](Lore_Skeever.md).

In [4E 180](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_180), an incident occured in Rivercrest where a massive magical fire burnt down most of the town. Refugees of Rivercrest fled and sought refuge inside the castle, but were captured and imprisoned in cages by a band of goblins. [The Warrior](Lore_The_Warrior_(person).md) embarked to rescue them and defeat the goblins within.<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-BL-1)</sup>

## Hill of Suicides
The [Hill of Suicides](Lore_Hill_of_Suicides.md) is a hill that rises out of the swamp waters of northern [Dementia](Lore_Dementia_(place).md), in the center of the [Shivering Isles](Lore_Shivering_Isles.md). It is located north of the Low Road, to the west of [New Sheoth](Lore_New_Sheoth.md). A small graveyard is located nearby.

The Hill is infamous among the mortal inhabitants of the Isles, as any citizen who choses to end their own life is doomed to spend eternity on the Hill by [Sheogorath](Lore_Sheogorath.md)'s decree. The [souls](Lore_Souls.md) of these suicides can be seen mournfully gazing out adopt the Hill, but cannot be spoken to. It is believed to be a miserable existence, intended to discourage depressed mortals from killing themselves. Visitors to New Sheoth sometimes take day trips to the Hill to take in the sight.

The only way to free a soul from the Hill of Suicides is to bring their mortal remains to them. However, these skeletal remains may allegedly be scattered across the Isles by forces unknown. Those that free trapped souls are said to become blessed.

## Hirstaang Forest
The [Hirstaang Forest](Lore_Hirstaang_Forest.md) covered most of the southern half of [Solstheim](Lore_Solstheim.md), south of the [Isinfier Plains](Lore_Isinfier_Plains.md). Bloodskal Barrow and Brodir Grove formed the northern border. The west, south and eastern borders ended at the northern waters of the [Inner Sea](Lore_Inner_Sea.md). The forest was destroyed following the eruption of [Red Mountain](Lore_Red_Mountain.md) in the [Red Year](Lore_Red_Year.md) of [4E 5](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_5), leaving only ash wastes in the southern half of Solstheim.

The Hirstaang Forest was home to numerous barrows and ice caves. There were only two [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) settlements on the island, both located within the forest: [Fort Frostmoth](Lore_Fort_Frostmoth.md) and the mining town of [Raven Rock](Lore_Raven_Rock.md). Barrows like Bloodskal Barrow, Himmelhost Barrow, Frosselmane Barrow, [Kolbjorn Barrow](Lore_Kolbjorn_Barrow.md), Skogsdrake Barrow and Valbrandr Barrow made the Hirstaang Forest home to the largest concentration of barrows anywhere on Solstheim. The few ice caves in the region, like the Halls of Penumbra, Ulfgar the Unending's Dwelling and Kolfinna's Dwelling, made the Hirstaang Forest as extensive underground as it was above ground.

## Hissmir
[Hissmir](Lore_Hissmir.md) is a historic settlement in the [Venomous Fens](Lore_Venomous_Fens.md) of southern [Shadowfen](Lore_Shadowfen.md), deep in the province of [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md). Though no longer a functioning city in its own right, Hissmir is a site of pilgrimage, centered on an ancient [xanmeer](Lore_Xanmeer.md) complex. [Lukiul](Lore_Lukiul.md) pilgrims come to Hissmir from all over [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) to complete the Trials of the Burnished Scales and commune with the [Hist](Lore_Hist.md). This ritual allows even non-Argonians to speak with the Hist. Many Argonians born outside Black Marsh lack a connection to the Hist and come to Hissmir to find that missing piece of themselves.

## River Hjaal
The [River Hjaal](Lore_River_Hjaal.md) is the main river that flows through the center of [Hjaalmarch](Lore_Hjaalmarch.md) in [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). Its headwaters are located in northwestern [Whiterun Hold](Lore_Whiterun_Hold.md), in the highlands south of [Morthal](Lore_Morthal.md). After dropping down a series of waterfalls and entering Hjaalmarch, the river passes northeast through Morthal, then spreads out and drains into the [Karth delta](Lore_Karth_River.md), the marshy area where the River Hjaal and the larger Karth River empty into the icy [Sea of Ghosts](Lore_Sea_of_Ghosts.md) through a variety of intricate channels.

## Hjaalmarch
[Hjaalmarch](Lore_Hjaalmarch.md) or **Hjaalmarch Hold** is a lowland coastal [hold](Lore_Hold.md) in [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). Roughly half the hold consists of the [Drajkmyr](Lore_Drajkmyr.md) marsh, south of which is the capital and only major settlement [Morthal](Lore_Morthal.md) (although [Stonehills](Lore_Stonehills.md) and some farmsteads lie on the tundra of [Hailstone Valley](Lore_Hailstone_Valley.md)). The region is veined with waterways that empty into the [Sea of Ghosts](Lore_Sea_of_Ghosts.md), and the [Skyborn Range](Lore_Skyborn_Range.md) further isolates the area from the eastern and southern border.

Hjaalmarch is home to the Karth delta, also called the Mouths of the Karth, where the mighty [Karth River](Lore_Karth_River.md) and the smaller [River Hjaal](Lore_River_Hjaal.md) (whence the hold's name is derived) empty into the Sea of Ghosts through a variety of intricate channels. The [Deathbell](Lore_Deathbell.md) flower is known to be abundant throughout the swamps. Many ruins dot the hold, including the legendary [Labyrinthian](Lore_Labyrinthian.md). Combined with the fog that surrounds the marshes and the creatures that stalk the land ([Wispmothers](Lore_Wispmother.md) purportedly originated here), Hjaalmarch is considered one of the more mysterious holds in Skyrim.

Hjaalmarch has the lowest taxes of the nine holds, but it is also the poorest hold.

## Hla Oad
[Hla Oad](Lore_Hla_Oad.md) was a tiny fishing village at the southern end of the [Bitter Coast](Lore_Bitter_Coast.md) region, built along [Odai River](Lore_Odai_River.md) southwest of [Balmora](Lore_Balmora.md) on [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md).

## Lake Hlaalu
[Lake Hlaalu](Lore_Lake_Hlaalu.md) is a lake in southwestern [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md), in the western part of the [Deshaan](Lore_Deshaan.md) region. The city of [Narsis](Lore_Narsis.md), capital of [House Hlaalu](Lore_House_Hlaalu.md), is situated on its southern banks. Lake Hlaalu is used by Narsis as its water source. It is named for the [Great House Hlaalu](Lore_House_Hlaalu.md).

## Hoarbeld
[Hoarbeld](Lore_Hoarbeld.md) was a village featured in the fictional novel series [The Adventures of Eslaf Erol](Lore_The_Adventures_of_Eslaf_Erol.md). It was located in the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), outside of the kingdom of [Erolgard](Lore_Erolgard.md) and near [Mount Jensen](Lore_Mount_Jensen.md) and the southern woods of [Tamburkar](Lore_Tamburkar.md)..

## Holamayan
[Holamayan](Lore_Holamayan.md) is a monastery and sacred temple of [Azura](Lore_Azura.md), located on an isolated island off the eastern coast of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md). It lies along [Azura's Coast](Lore_Azura%27s_Coast.md), south of [Sadrith Mora](Lore_Sadrith_Mora.md) and east of [Mount Assarnibibi](Lore_Mount_Assarnibibi.md). The monastery has been a pilgrimage site for thousands of years, with ferries coming from as far away as [Ebonheart](Lore_Castle_Ebonheart.md). Secretly, Holamayan became the home of the [Dissident Priests](Lore_Dissident_Priests.md), who disputed the doctrines of the [Tribunal Temple](Lore_Tribunal_Temple.md). Thus, the monastery became a repository for the Apographa, the hidden writings the Temple had suppressed. The monastery itself is built underneath the surface of the island, with its entrance hidden by hills and brush. It is further protected by a magical stone hood that raises only during the times of Azura, dawn and dusk. Within, the monks pay homage to Azura and the [saints](Lore_Temple_Saints.md) of the [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) (not including the [Tribunal](Lore_Tribunal.md)).

## The Hollow City
The [Hollow City](Lore_Hollow_City.md) is an abandoned city found in the depths of [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md)'s realm of [Coldharbour](Lore_Coldharbour.md). It is protected from Molag Bal's influence and minions by his enemy, [Meridia](Lore_Meridia.md), who despises undeath. It is thus a unique oasis of light and life in one of the darkest and most dangerous realms of [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md).

The Hollow City was once a city in [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md), likely in [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), at which point it was called by another name.

The legend of the city's disappearance bears a striking resemblance to the history of **[Delodiil](Lore_Delodiil.md)**, which was transported by her into [Coldharbour](Lore_Coldharbour.md) in response to an attack by Molag Bal. It is implied that the Chapel of Light is the same as the one found in Delodiil, which was also built around a cathedral dedicated to Meridia. However, there are some inconsistencies in that Hollow City was transported in the time of [Laloriaran Dynar](Lore_Laloriaran_Dynar.md), the "Last King of the Ayleids", and therefore at the very end of the decline of Ayleid civilization, while Delodiil apparently disappeared when Ayleids still ruled the Heartlands.

## Honor's Rest
[Honor's Rest](Lore_Honor%27s_Rest.md) is a tomb, built by [Orcish](Lore_Orc.md), [Redguard](Lore_Redguard.md), and [Breton](Lore_Breton.md) masons after the destruction of the First [Orsinium](Lore_Orsinium.md). It serves as the final resting place of [Baloth Bloodtusk](Lore_Baloth_Bloodtusk.md) and [Gaiden Shinji](Lore_Gaiden_Shinji.md), two great heroes and rivals, buried together side by side.

## Lake Honrich
[Lake Honrich](Lore_Lake_Honrich.md) is a lake in the eastern [Rift](Lore_The_Rift.md). [Riften](Lore_Riften.md) is located on the shores of Lake Honrich, and a set of islands called the [Isle of Gold](Lore_Isle_of_Gold.md) can be found at its center.

## Hoperoot
[Hoperoot](Lore_Hoperoot.md) was a planned [Bosmeri](Lore_Bosmer.md) city in the [West Weald](Lore_West_Weald.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). It was a living settlement, consisting of a massive tree-fort grown from the foothills of the [Colovian Highlands](Lore_Colovian_Highlands.md). The fort also incorporated ruined fragments of [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) architecture, which were lifted into the air by its branches. Hoperoot was grown by the [Dawnway Bosmer](Lore_Dawnway.md) circa [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582) to serve as the new capital of Dawnwood, a forest kingdom created via the destructive power of the [Wildburn](Lore_Wildburn.md).

Secretly, a cult known as the [Recollection](Lore_Recollection.md) planned to use Hoperoot as a fortified headquarters during their attempted takeover of the entire West Weald. After initially using [wildburn seeds](Lore_Wildburn_Seeds.md) to jungle the sparsely-inhabited [Strid Vale](Lore_Strid_Vale.md) region, the Recollection leader [Nantharion Rayn](Lore_Nantharion.md) declared himself King of Dawnwood and led peaceful Bosmer settlers across the [Strid River](Lore_Strid_River.md) to found the settlement of Vashabar. He then began to oversee the establishment of Hoperoot as a second settlement.

With the help of [Greenspeaker](Lore_Greenspeakers.md) Sorilen and the [Shardborn](Lore_Shardborn.md), King Nantharion initiated a Wildburn ritual at Hoperoot to destroy the nearby city of [Skingrad](Lore_Skingrad.md). However, the ritual was interrupted by agents of [Hermaeus Mora](Lore_Hermaeus_Mora.md) led by [the Vestige](Lore_The_Vestige.md), who managed to kill Sorilen and destroy the wildburn seed. This caused the seed to release its energy too early, burning down the entirety of Hoperoot.

Following Hoperoot's destruction, King Nantharion's role as leader of the Recollection was revealed. He was subsequently killed by the Vestige within the ruins of [Miscarcand](Lore_Miscarcand.md), ending the Recollection's attempt at further expansion.

## Howling Halls
[Emperor Pelagius Septim III](Lore_Pelagius_Septim_III.md) died on the 2nd of Sun's Dawn, [3E 153](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_153) in the [Temple of Kynareth](Lore_Temple_of_Kynareth.md) on the Isle of [Betony](Lore_Betony.md). This Temple was destroyed promptly after the Emperor's death. Not long after, residents of the [Shivering Isles](Lore_Shivering_Isles.md) came to [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md), stole the stones of the ruined Temple, brought them to the Isles, and rebuilt the Temple in exact detail atop the [Heretic's Horn](Lore_Heretic%27s_Horn.md) in [Dementia](Lore_Dementia_(place).md). This structure became known as the **Howling Halls**, as it was said that one could still hear Pelagius' screams.

## Hrota Cave
[Hrota Cave](Lore_Hrota_Cave.md) is a natural cave network found just north of [Anvil](Lore_Anvil.md), on a hill overlooking the city. It lies just off the [Gold Road](Lore_Gold_Road.md).

Like all natural caves, these tunnels once served as the capillaries of [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md), pulsing with the divine essence of the [Aedra](Lore_Aedra.md). The cave possesses black rock walls and extensive stalagma.

Circa [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), the cave was home to an evil spirit, a [wispmother](Lore_Wispmother.md) named Exulus. She spawned other lesser wispmothers, and used her [wisps](Lore_Wisp.md) to reanimate the corpses of the countless warriors sent against her. The Temple of [Arkay](Lore_Arkay.md) lost several holy warriors to the monster, and offered a bounty through the Dragonstar Caravan Company to whoever could destroy Exulus and recover the pauldrons of the fallen warriors. This contract was duly completed, and the evil was driven from Hrota Cave. However, the cave had also become the lair of a [vampire lord](Lore_Vampire_Lord.md) named Zalar-do, whose presence threatened the whole of Anvil. The famed vampire hunter Mel Adrys tracked the vampire to the cave, killing her and the few victims she had turned.

By the end of the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), the cave was uninhabited. This changed in [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433) when a gang of [Bosmer](Lore_Bosmer.md) thieves moved in and started plaguing Anvil. One of their victims was the Anvil harbormaster, Newheim the Portly, whose heirloom flagon was stolen. The local [Fighters Guild](Lore_Fighters_Guild.md) was hired to take care of the thieves, and subsequently wiped out the gang and recovered the missing flagon. Wild beasts and monsters then began to occupy the vacated cave.

## Hrothmund's Barrow
[Hrothmund's Barrow](Lore_Hrothmund%27s_Barrow.md) is a [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) barrow on the island of [Solstheim](Lore_Solstheim.md), located in the [Moesring Mountains](Lore_Moesring_Mountains.md).

## History
The barrow is the resting place of [Hrothmund the Red](Lore_Hrothmund_the_Red.md), a [Skaal](Lore_Skaal.md) who left [Skaal Village](Lore_Skaal_Village.md) and founded [Thirsk](Lore_Thirsk.md) in [3E 326](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_326). He ruled over Thirsk for twenty-one years, but was slain and devoured by Ondjage, the Fell Wolf, in [3E 347](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_347). He was buried in the barrow with two of his prized possessions: Hrothmund's Axe, which became a conduit for speaking with his spirit, and the [Amulet of Infectious Charm](Lore_Amulet_of_Infectious_Charm.md), a famous magical trinket which he had used in life to woo women despite his great ugliness. A body encased in [stalhrim](Lore_Stalhrim.md) was placed in the barrow, although it's unknown if it was the remains of Hrothmund. The barrow was guarded by [draugr](Lore_Draugr.md), [bonewolves](Lore_Bonewolf.md) and undead [skeletons](Lore_Skeleton.md), and the entrance was magically sealed. To gain entrance, one needed to speak the correct password ("Ondjage"), or the barrow would be sealed forever. The main chamber was flooded with water, which would recede when approached. A geoglyph called Hrothmund's Bane was assembled around the barrow to resemble a wolf, with the entrance as its eye.

Following Hrothmund's death, the inhabitants of Thirsk began the tradition of sending their new chieftains to the barrow to receive Hrothmund's blessing. It was during one of these visits, in [3E 427](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_427), that the [Nerevarine](Lore_Nerevarine.md) entered the barrow, seeking to become chieftain following the death of the [Udyrfrykte](Lore_Udyrfrykte.md). The Nerevarine also looted the stalhrim, and took the Amulet of Infectious Charm for Louis Beauchamp, a [Breton](Lore_Breton.md) mage from [Ald'ruhn](Lore_Ald%27ruhn.md) who had sent a failed expedition to the barrow earlier that year in a patchwork airship. By [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201), the seal on the entrance was no longer in place and the barrow's undead guardians were gone. After Thirsk had been taken by [rieklings](Lore_Riekling.md) earlier that year, the warriors of Thirsk had fallen out of Hrothmund's favor, and it's unknown if the tradition continued.

## Hsaarik Head
[Hsaarik Head](Lore_Hsaarik_Head.md) is a headland located at the extreme northern tip of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md)'s [Broken Cape](Lore_Broken_Cape.md), where the city of [Winterhold](Lore_Winterhold_(city).md) is built upon. According to tradition, it is where the last fleet from [Atmora](Lore_Atmora.md), under the command of [Ysgramor](Lore_Ysgramor.md), made landfall in [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) during the late [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md). Some believed that the [resting place](Lore_Yngol_Barrow.md) of [Yngol](Lore_Yngol.md), the son of Ysgramor, was located far below the rocky face of Hsaarik Head.<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_Yngol)</sup>

The headland was once much larger and more populated until the [Great Collapse](Lore_Great_Collapse.md) of [4E 122](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_122), when large portions of it fell into the [Sea of Ghosts](Lore_Sea_of_Ghosts.md), taking entire city districts of Winterhold with it. The island that the Skytemple Ruins is located on in the Fourth Era was once contiguous with the rest of Hsaarik Head, before the Collapse tore down the land connecting it and sundered it from the mainland.

## Hunding Bay
**Hunding Bay**, named after the [famed Redguard hero](Lore_Frandar_Hunding.md), is a body of water in the [Abecean Sea](Lore_Abecean_Sea.md), near the isle of [Stros M'Kai](Lore_Stros_M%27Kai.md), south of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md). It is well known as the site of the famous [Battle of Hunding Bay](Lore_Battle_of_Hunding_Bay.md).<sup>[[2]](#cite_note-PGE1Ham-2)</sup>

## Hunting Grounds
The [Hunting Grounds](Lore_Hunting_Grounds.md), also known as the **Great Hunt**, is a realm of [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md) created and ruled over by [Hircine](Lore_Hircine.md), the [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Princes.md) of the Hunt. It has been described as a realm of dense woodland and vast grasslands populated by [werebears](Lore_Werebear.md), wild [cattle](Lore_Cow.md) and [unicorns](Lore_Unicorn.md). It is a savage land inhabited by vicious creatures such as [bears](Lore_Bear.md), [wolves](Lore_Wolf.md), werecreatures, and [Daedra](Lore_Daedra.md). These creatures are generally much larger than their counterparts in the mortal realm. The spirits of animals from the mortal plane are a common sight within the Hunting Grounds, as Hircine brings them in to please his followers. Some Daedra from the realm take form of sapient animals. All who die within the Hunting Grounds are doomed to remain within the realm after death. Inhabitants of the realm may take on the shapes of various animals to participate in the eternal hunt.

Followers of Hircine are promised an afterlife within the Hunting Grounds, where they can indulge in spectacular hunts, as well as experience an endless cycle of violence as well as death and rebirth, reborn endlessly in bodies that never fall ill. Its inhabitants reside in the many hunting lodges dotting the landscape. The forests of the Hunting Grounds are teeming with powerful beasts, which allow Hircine's followers to engage in the most spectacular hunts. For the devoted, it is a paradise. The souls of [lycanthropes](Lore_Lycanthropy.md) are claimed by Hircine and spend eternity experiencing the thrill of the hunt in his Hunting Grounds. However, it is possible for a soul to transfer to the proper afterlife (such as [Sovngarde](Lore_Sovngarde.md)) if their lycanthropy is cured posthumously, provided their soul is yet to have been taken to the Hunting Grounds. During the daylight hours, [werebears](Lore_Werebear.md) and fierce [Nords](Lore_Nord.md) stalk the land in their continual Hunt. When the sun sinks below the horizon, Hircine announces himself with a pack of werewolves to take his turn in the cycle.

## References
1. [^](#cite_ref-BL_1-0) [Rescuing the Townsfolk](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Blades:Rescuing_the_Townsfolk) quest in *[Blades](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Blades:Blades)*
2. [^](#cite_ref-PGE1Ham_2-0) [*Pocket Guide to the Empire, 1st Edition: Hammerfell*](Lore_Pocket_Guide_to_the_Empire,_1st_Edition_Hammerfell.md) — [Imperial Geographical Society](Lore_Imperial_Geographical_Society.md), [2E 864](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_864)