# Factions L

[Overview](Lore_Factions.md) | [A](Lore_Factions_A.md) [B](Lore_Factions_B.md) [C](Lore_Factions_C.md) [D](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_D) [E](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_E) [F](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_F) [G](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_G) [H](Lore_Factions_H.md) [I](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_I) [J](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_J) [K](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_K) L [M](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_M) [N](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_N) [O](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_O) [P](Lore_Factions_P.md) [Q](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_Q) [R](Lore_Factions_R.md) [S](Lore_Factions_S.md) [T](Lore_Factions_T.md) [U](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_U) [V](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_V) [W](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_W) [X](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_X) Y [Z](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_Z)
---

## Laborer's Guild
The [Laborer's Guild](Lore_Laborer%27s_Guild.md) is a contractor organization that seems to deal in varying disciplines of manual labor.<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-RGKotaro-1)</sup> They possessed a guild hall in [Stros M'Kai](Lore_Port_Hunding.md) circa [2E 864](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_864).<sup>[[2]](#cite_note-RG-2)</sup>

## Lainlyn (family)
The [Lainlyn](Lore_Lainlyn_(family).md) family is a [Redguard](Lore_Redguard.md) clan and the namesake of the eponymous [city-state](Lore_Lainlyn.md) and later [barony](Lore_Lainlyn_(barony).md). While their political affiliation is never stated, the Lainlyn settlement is historically associated with the [Crowns](Lore_Crowns.md).

## Lariat Family
The [Lariat Family](Lore_Lariat_Family.md) (also spelled **Lariate**) was an influential [Breton](Lore_Breton.md) family of [Wayrest](Lore_Wayrest.md), active in [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md). They were distant cousins of the [Septims](Lore_Septim_Dynasty.md), and were known for their high position within the [Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md).

## League of Unrest
The League of Unrest was a [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md) alliance between [Daggerfall](Lore_Daggerfall_(kingdom).md), [Wayrest](Lore_Wayrest_(kingdom).md) and [Balfiera](Lore_Balfiera.md) against the [Cyrodiils](Lore_Imperial.md). Not to be confused with the [Restless League](Lore_Restless_League.md).<sup>[[3]](#cite_note-RGMaiko-3)</sup>

## Lepidopterans
The [Lepidopterans](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Lepidopterans) were a cult devoted to the worship of the [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Prince.md) of Dusk and Dawn, [Azura](Lore_Azura.md). Those followers of Azura were known for hiding their faces behind intricate [butterfly](Lore_Butterfly.md) -themed masks called Moonshadow Wings Masks, named after Azura's plane, [Moonshadow](Lore_Moonshadow.md).

The exact details about the cult are unclear, but the Moonshadow Wings Masks gained popularity in the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), during the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md) and the [Three Banners War](Lore_Three_Banners_War.md) of [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582). During this time, those masks grew into a widespread trend among the disillusioned youth of mainland [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md).

## Legion Zero
[Legion Zero](Lore_Legion_Zero.md) was a regiment of the [Imperial Legion](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md) that was formed during the [Planemeld](Lore_Planemeld.md). Their ranks consisted of those within the greater Legion who swore loyalty to [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md) and the [Worm Cult](Lore_Worm_Cult.md), seduced by the promise of riches and power.

## Lhotunics
The [Lhotunics](Lore_Lhotunics.md) (the name Lhotun meaning **Second Boy** in [Yoku](Lore_Yoku.md)) are the third faction in [Redguard](Lore_Redguard.md) society that appeared after the [Warp in the West](Lore_Warp_in_the_West.md). During the Warp, the [Forebear](Lore_Forebears.md) city of [Sentinel](Lore_Sentinel.md) became the dominant power in most of northern [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md). However, most of Sentinel's new lands were [Crown](Lore_Crowns.md). To keep his kingdom together, [King Lhotun](Lore_Lhotun.md) was forced to create what some consider a third party, one with reverence for the [Yokudan](Lore_Yokudan.md) past but respect for the Imperial ways. The moderate Lhotunics have attracted nothing but contempt from both the Forebears and the Crowns.

## Lion Guard
The [Lion Guard](Lore_Lion_Guard.md) was a [Breton](Lore_Breton.md) [knightly order](Lore_Knights.md) that was initially an autonomous organization, in that they pledged loyalty to all Bretons but were governed by no ruler. They sought to administer justice and impose peace in [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md), but they adjusted their role to serve as at-need guardians. They were available for any of High Rock's kings to call upon when their military needed extra skilled fighters. However, [High King Emeric](Lore_Emeric.md) later adopted them as his own elite knightly order during the time of the first [Daggerfall Covenant](Lore_Daggerfall_Covenant.md), and utilized them during [Ranser's War](Lore_Ranser%27s_War.md). The Lion Guard then pledged its allegiance to the subsequent Greater Daggerfall Covenant, and served as the elite and personal guardians of the Covenant's rulers. Inspired by the Lion Guard, Emeric adopted the [lion](Lore_Lion.md) as his personal crest and it became the martial symbol of the Daggerfall Covenant.

The Lion Guard did not discriminate by a person's past, station, or [race](Lore_Race.md). Aspiring recruits must show loyalty, courage, strength of character, and valor in battle in the face of adversity. Nobility and wealth were not qualifiers for promotion. Instead, its members could only rise through the ranks by proving their bravery and loyalty. These standards were in place to preserve the order's reputation as steadfast protectors of the highest martial skill. Their standards were strict, and knights who violated these standards were promptly removed from the order's ranks.

## Lleran
The [Lleran](Lore_Lleran.md) clan is an ancient family of [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) that lives in the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). They are one of the thirty revered families of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md), and are a sub-faction of [House Telvanni](Lore_House_Telvanni.md). The **Lleran Ancestral Tomb** is located in the [Ascadian Isles](Lore_Ascadian_Isles.md) region, east of Zainsipilu.

## Locvar
The [Locvar](Lore_Locvar.md) were a [barbarian](Lore_Barbarians.md) tribe active on [Summerset Isle](Lore_Summerset_Isle.md) during the [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md), known for their conflict with [Clan Direnni](Lore_Clan_Direnni.md).

## Longhouse Emperors
The [Longhouse Emperors](Lore_Longhouse_Emperors.md) were a [dynasty](Lore_Empires.md) of [Reachmen](Lore_Reachmen.md) who seized the Ruby Throne and ruled the [Empire of Cyrodiil](Lore_Empire_of_Cyrodiil_(Interregnum).md) for a period of forty-four years during the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md). Regarded as eccentric at best and utterly alien at worst by [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md)'s populace, the Longhouse Emperors' reign began when the Reachman warlord [Durcorach the Black Drake](Lore_Durcorach.md) and his horde of Reachmen conquered Cyrodiil in [2E 533](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_533), a feat believed to have been made possible with the aid of sympathetic [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) nobles and secret [Daedra](Lore_Daedra.md) worshipers who struck a deal with [Mehrunes Dagon](Lore_Mehrunes_Dagon.md). In an effort to solidify his claim to the throne, Durcorach married [Veraxia Tharn](Lore_Veraxia_Tharn.md) of the prominent [Tharn](Lore_House_Tharn.md) family of [Nibenay](Lore_Nibenay.md) in [2E 534](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_534) and also reforged the membership of the [Elder Council](Lore_Elder_Council.md). Durcorach eventually met his end while leading an army of Reachmen in an invasion of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md) in [2E 541](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_541); after sacking and besieging several cities, Durcorach's army was broken outside [Daggerfall](Lore_Daggerfall.md), and the Black Drake himself was slain by [Emeric](Lore_Emeric.md) of Cumberland.

[Moricar the Middling](Lore_Moricar.md), Durcorach's son, succeeded him at the age of twenty three. Moricar had been born and raised in [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md) like his father, but had spent his teenage years being educated by Imperial tutors and was said to better understand Cyrodilic culture. In [2E 563](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_563), Moricar launched an invasion of Western Skyrim. Accounts of the campaign differ. In one, Moricar remained in the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md) rather than lead the army as his father would have. This decision likely spared his life, as his forces were humiliatingly routed in a single battle by the army of High King [Svargrim](Lore_Svargrim.md), but he was consequently lambasted as a coward by Western Skyrim's bards. In another account, Moricar led his troops to the gates of [Solitude](Lore_Solitude.md) before Svargrim's army attacked in overwhelming numbers. Moricar was gravely wounded in the battle and returned to Cyrodiil, where, despite the best efforts of Imperial and Reach healers, he died the following year.

In [2E 564](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_564), Moricar's son [Leovic](Lore_Leovic.md) inherited the Ruby Throne. Like his grandfather, Leovic married a Tharn, [Clivia](Lore_Clivia_Tharn.md). Leovic's reign was initially only marked by his peculiar behaviors, which the Cyrodilic nobility blamed on his Reachman upbringing. However, in [2E 576](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_576), Leovic crossed the line when he legalized [Daedra](Lore_Daedra.md) worship, allegedly at the behest of corrupt advisors, drawing the ire of many nobles who had once been counted among his supporters. One of these erstwhile supporters, Duke [Varen Aquilarios](Lore_Varen_Aquilarios.md) of [Chorrol](Lore_Chorrol.md), marshaled the armies of the [Colovian Estates](Lore_Colovian_Estates.md) and led them against Leovic in open rebellion from 2E 576 to [2E 577](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_577). In 2E 577, Leovic was killed by Varen in the Imperial Throne Room, bringing an end to the period of the Longhouse Emperors. Durcorach's line was survived by his kin in the Reach, the [Blackdrake Clan](Lore_Blackdrake_Clan.md), and after Leovic's demise, the clan's chieftainship was claimed by [Caddach](Lore_Caddach.md), a cousin who had been installed as the Imperial Governor of [Markarth](Lore_Markarth.md) by Moricar.

## Lyrezi
[Lyrezi](Lore_Lyrezi.md) is one of the [vampire](Lore_Vampire.md) bloodlines of the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md) area.

## References
1. [^](#cite_ref-RGKotaro_1-0) [Kotaro](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Redguard:Kotaro)'s dialogue in [*Redguard*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Redguard:Redguard)
2. [^](#cite_ref-RG_2-0) Events of [*Redguard*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Redguard:Redguard)
3. [^](#cite_ref-RGMaiko_3-0) [Maiko K'Elmar](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Redguard:Maiko_K%27Elmar)'s dialogue in [*Redguard*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Redguard:Redguard)