# Frontier, Conquest

| Book Information | |
| --- | --- |
| Writer | [Kurt Kuhlmann](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/General:Kurt_Kuhlmann) |
| Seen In: | - [Morrowind](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Morrowind:Frontier,_Conquest...) <br> - [Oblivion](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Frontier,_Conquest) <br> - [Skyrim](Skyrim_Frontier,_Conquest.md) <br> - [Elder Scrolls Online](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Frontier,_Conquest) |

Frontier, Conquest, and Accommodation: A Social History of Cyrodiil **by the [University of Gwylim Press](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#University_of_Gwylim_Press), [3E 344](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_344)** *Details the presence of humans in Tamriel before the original Nordic conquests thought to bring humans to Tamriel* *
---
*Note: In the [ESO](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Online) version of the book, the publication date is [2E 344](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_344), amongst other minor changes.*

*When this text was originally posted on the Elder Scrolls Forums, it had a [note](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/General:Michael_Kirkbride%27s_Posts#1999) crediting a Severus Reva as author.*

---
Historians often portray the human settlement of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) as a straightforward process of military expansion of the [Nords](Lore_Nord.md) of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). In fact, human settlers occupied nearly every corner of Tamriel before Skyrim was even founded. These so-called "[Nedic peoples](Lore_Nede.md)" include the proto-Cyrodilians, the [ancestors](Lore_Druids_of_Galen.md) of the [Bretons](Lore_Breton.md), the aboriginals of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), and perhaps a now-vanished Human population of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). Strictly speaking, the Nords are simply another of these Nedic peoples, the only one that failed to find a method of peaceful accommodation with the [Elves](Lore_Mer.md) who already occupied Tamriel.

[Ysgramor](Lore_Ysgramor.md) was certainly not the first human settler in Tamriel. In fact, in "fleeing civil war in [Atmora](Lore_Atmora.md)", as the [Song of Return](Lore_Songs_of_the_Return.md) states, Ysgramor was following a long tradition of migration from Atmora; Tamriel had served as a "safety valve" for Atmora for centuries before Ysgramor's arrival. Malcontents, dissidents, rebels, landless younger sons, all made the difficult crossing from Atmora to the "New World" of Tamriel. New archeological excavations date the earliest human settlements in Hammerfell, [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md), and [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) at [ME800-1000](Lore_Merethic_Era.md), centuries earlier than Ysgramor, even assuming that the twelve Nord "kings" prior to [Harald](Lore_Harald.md) were actual historical figures.

The Nedic peoples were a minority in a land of Elves, and had no choice but to live peacefully with the Elder Race. In High Rock, Hammerfell, Cyrodiil, and possibly Morrowind, they did just that, and the Nedic peoples flourished and expanded over the last centuries of the Merethic Era. Only in Skyrim did this accommodation break down, an event recorded in the Song of Return. Perhaps, being close to reinforcements from Atmora, the proto-Nords did not feel it necessary to submit to the authority of the [Skyrim Elves](Lore_Snow_Elf.md). Indeed, the early Nord chronicles note that under King Harald, the first historical Nord ruler ([1E 113](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_113) - [221](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_221)), "the Atmoran mercenaries returned to their homeland" following the consolidation of Skyrim as a centralized kingdom. Whatever the case, the pattern was set -- in Skyrim, expansion would proceed militarily, with human settlement following the frontier of conquest, and the line between Human territory and Elven territory was relatively clear.

But beyond this "zone of conflict", the other Nedic peoples continued to merge with their Elven neighbors. When the Nord armies of the [First Empire](Lore_First_Empire_of_the_Nords.md) finally entered High Rock and Cyrodiil, they found Bretons and proto-Cyrodiils already living there among the Elves. Indeed, the Nords found it difficult to distinguish between Elf and Breton, the two races had already intermingled to such a degree. The arrival of the Nord armies upset the balance of power between the Nedic peoples and the Elves. Although the Nords' expansion into High Rock and Cyrodiil was relatively brief (less than two centuries), the result was decisive; from then on, power in those regions shifted from the Elves to the Humans.