# High King Emeric Answers Your Questions

| Book Information | |
| --- | --- |
| Source: | - [ESO - Loremaster's Archive](Lore_Loremaster%27s_Archive.md) ([link](https://www.elderscrollsonline.com/en-us/news/post/25013)) |
| Writer | [Lawrence Schick](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/General:Lawrence_Schick) |

High King Emeric Answers Your Questions **by [High King Emeric](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#King_Emeric)** *High King Emeric answers questions on lore*
---
**"Your Royal Highness, as leader of the [Daggerfall Covenant](Lore_Daggerfall_Covenant.md), you know firsthand of the decline of the [Second Empire](Lore_Second_Empire.md). What are your thoughts on this [Alliance War](Lore_Alliance_War.md)? What will it achieve? Your alliance has a noble cause, but it seems to me that good soldiers are fighting and killing each other while [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md), our true enemy, succeeds." – Alessandra of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md)**

King [Emeric](Lore_Emeric.md) says, "Though orators and demagogues will tell you otherwise, in politics matters are rarely as simple as just choosing one course over another, and a monarch must take thought for the future as well as the present. Though the [Dark Anchors](Lore_Dark_Anchors.md) are falling across [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md), the epicenter of the invasion is the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md) of Cyrodiil. This is no coincidence: the city of [Alessia](Lore_Alessia.md) and the [Remans](Lore_Reman_Dynasty.md) is itself a source of great power, both symbolic and actual. Who controls the Imperial City once the invasion is repulsed is a matter of profound consequence for all of Tamriel. We [Bretons](Lore_Breton.md) of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md) remember the oppressive rule of [Elvenkind](Lore_Elves.md), and are determined that Tamriel shall not be ruled again by such tyrants, whether from [Alinor](Lore_Alinor_(city).md) or [Mournhold](Lore_Mournhold.md)."

**"My King, I'm currently working on the rulers of the Second Empire, but the sources are obscure at best: the archives of [Imperial College](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Imperial_College) say that [Sidri-Ashak](Lore_Sidri-Ashak.md) is the 'last strong [Akaviri](Lore_Akaviri.md) Potentate' but also a ruler of Cyrodiil during the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md). Who exactly is he? Did he rule after [Versidue-Shaie](Lore_Versidue-Shaie.md) and [Savirien-Chorak](Lore_Savirien-Chorak.md), or sometime during the [Reman Dynasty](Lore_Reman_Dynasty.md), or both?" – Iszara the Restless, Singer of the [Scenarist Guild](Lore_Scenarist_Guild.md)**

King Emeric says, "Each Emperor of the Second Empire was advised by the leader of the Akaviri faction on the [Elder Council](Lore_Elder_Council.md), who bore the title Akaviri Potentate. Sidri-Ashak was Potentate to the little-known Emperor [Brazollus Dor](Lore_Brazollus_Dor.md), who occupied the [Ruby Throne](Lore_Ruby_Throne.md) between the reigns of [Reman II](Lore_Reman_II.md) and [Reman III](Lore_Reman_III.md). Dor was not a particularly capable ruler, nor was he much interested in matters of state, preferring to spend most of his time at his country estate near [Skingrad](Lore_Skingrad.md). The details of rule, and eventually nearly all issues of policy and politics, were delegated to his Potentate, Sidri-Ashak. This was Emperor Dor's one wise decision during his reign, for Sidri-Ashak proved to be both a gifted administrator and a man of integrity. It is a shame that he is not better remembered today; I have a rare copy of his 'Recollections of a Humble Potentate,' and often enjoy dipping into it before bedtime."

**"Your Majesty, your great admiration for [Reman Cyrodiil](Lore_Reman_Cyrodiil.md) and his heirs is famous in these lands, but what's lesser known is your stance on his Akaviri successors. In your opinion, is there anything the Potentates did right, and are any of their policies worth reinstating in your future vision for a unified Tamriel under the Covenant banner?" – Legate Cyclenophus of the Bretonic Imperial Renewal Society**

King Emeric says, "As mentioned above, the prudent monarch could do far worse than to model his polices upon those of Sidri-Ashak, who so capably served under Brazollus Dor, but I gather your question pertains to the regencies of Versidue-Shaie and Savirien-Chorak, who administered the Empire after the assassination of Reman III. Despite not being true Emperors, these latter-day Potentates ruled, for the most part, wisely and long. Versidue-Shaie was a peacemaker who ratified the [Cervant Truce](Lore_Cervant_Truce.md) that ended the disastrous [Four Score War](Lore_Four-Score_War.md) with [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md), and suppressed the private armies of the [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) nobility. But perhaps his greatest achievement was the [Guild Act](Lore_Guild_Act.md), which established and standardized regulation of trade and transactions across the Empire—and indeed, was adopted as de facto law across Tamriel, and even in the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md). His successor, Savirien-Chorak, was not quite so able an administrator, and often responded poorly to the crises that began, in his era, to pull the Empire apart. But he was wise enough to recognize that it's better to have the [Orcs](Lore_Orc.md) of [Wrothgar](Lore_Wrothgar.md) as your friends than as enemies, and it was he who finally brought [Orsinium](Lore_Orsinium.md) into the Empire."

**"Your Majesty, I ask this question on behalf of the citizens of [Belkarth](Lore_Belkarth.md) and [Dragonstar](Lore_Dragonstar.md), loyal subjects of the once-great Second Empire, but apparently second-class to the Daggerfall Covenant. [Craglorn](Lore_Craglorn.md) in eastern [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md) is under severe threat from the so-called [Scaled Court](Lore_Scaled_Court.md) and these beings they call [Celestials](Lore_Celestial.md). Is Hammerfell not part of the Covenant? Why has there been no aid from [Wayrest](Lore_Wayrest.md) to combat the Celestial threat in these Covenant homelands?" – Enodoc Dumnonii, Savant of the United Explorers of Scholarly Pursuits**

King Emeric says, "So far, only the parts of Hammerfell that owe fealty to the noble King [Fahara'jad](Lore_Fahara%27jad.md) have joined the Daggerfall Covenant. Belkarth and Dragonstar are home to many brave and accomplished citizens with admirable aspirations, but until Northeast Hammerfell is represented by some kind of centralized authority, there is no one for the Covenant to sign a treaty with, and no one for the citizens of Craglorn to hold accountable for their protection. It is time for the people of Craglorn to band together and find a leader they can stand behind. The Daggerfall Covenant needs to use the east-west caravan road to supply our troops in Cyrodiil, so naturally we try to maintain order along that corridor, but we cannot commit to more than that under current circumstances. I'm sure a scholar such as yourself will understand."

**"Your Royal Highness (for that is your title), written history teaches us that [Men](Lore_Man.md) cannot rule Cyrodiil. The [First Empire](Lore_Alessian_Empire.md) collapsed after the [War of Righteousness](Lore_War_of_Righteousness.md), and the defeat of those fanatics from the [Alessian Order](Lore_Alessian_Order.md) placed the Akaviri, foes of every race in Tamriel, on the throne. Aren't both of these failures enough proof of the weakness of the human race and its inability to rule an empire that matches its arrogance?" – Bobcat**

Chancellor Regina Troivois says, "That brings the audience with High King Emeric to an end for today. His Majesty apologizes for his abrupt departure; Scholars *[[sic](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/UESPWiki:Spelling#Books_and_Direct_Quotes)]* will kindly remain in place for a few moments while our intruding impostor is conducted by the Elite [Lion Guard](Lore_Lion_Guard.md) to another chamber for further … conversation. Thank you again for your fascinating questions, and if you write accounts of your audience with His Majesty, be sure to remark upon his warmth and easy approachability. That is all."