# Places F

[Overview](Lore_Places.md) | [A](Lore_Places_A.md) [B](Lore_Places_B.md) [C](Lore_Places_C.md) [D](Lore_Places_D.md) [E](Lore_Places_E.md) F [G](Lore_Places_G.md) [H](Lore_Places_H.md) [I](Lore_Places_I.md) [J](Lore_Places_J.md) [K](Lore_Places_K.md) [L](Lore_Places_L.md) [M](Lore_Places_M.md) [N](Lore_Places_N.md) [O](Lore_Places_O.md) [P](Lore_Places_P.md) [Q](Lore_Places_Q.md) [R](Lore_Places_R.md) [S](Lore_Places_S.md) [T](Lore_Places_T.md) [U](Lore_Places_U.md) [V](Lore_Places_V.md) [W](Lore_Places_W.md) [X](Lore_Places_X.md) [Y](Lore_Places_Y.md) [Z](Lore_Places_Z.md) | [Maps](Lore_Maps.md)
---

## Fain
[Fain](Lore_Fain.md) is a ruin in the [Shivering Isles](Lore_Shivering_Isles.md), located on one of the peaks of the Jester's Spine Mountains. Like the other ancient ruins that dot the realm, Fain was originally built by the [Predecessors](Lore_Predecessors.md), mortal inhabitants of the Isles whose civilization was wiped out during a previous [Greymarch](Lore_Greymarch.md).

The ruins were once home to a group of [Heretics](Lore_Heretics.md) who worshipped an unholy being known as [Gyub](Lore_Gyub.md). The Heretics sacrificed "volunteers" to Gyub by dangling them over the Pit of Fain (a root tunnel which drops vertically down the center of the mountain), reciting a prayer to Gyub, and dropping the sacrifice into the Pit, never to be seen again. There is no evidence of Gyub's existence; the sacrifices were likely eaten by the many beasts which lived in the root caves at the bottom of the Pit. Circa [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433), the Heretics here were preparing for an obscure ceremony that they called the "Rebirth", for which they needed a large number of "volunteers" to be sacrificed. The ruins were cleared out later that year by [Sheogorath](Lore_Sheogorath.md)'s [Champion](Lore_Hero_of_Kvatch.md).

## Falinesti
[Falinesti](Lore_Falinesti.md) is one of the eight major cities in the province of [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md), typically depicted on maps in the northwest portion of the province. Colloquially known as the "walking city", Falinesti is historically the capital of Valenwood and the seat of power for the [Camoran Dynasty](Lore_Camoran_Dynasty.md), a powerful clan of [Bosmer](Lore_Bosmer.md) that united every tribe and ushered the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md). Falinesti is one of two cities built from the [Elden Tree](Lore_Elden_Tree.md), the larger subspecies of the already tall [graht-oak](Lore_Graht-oak.md) trees of Valenwood.

## Falkreath
[Falkreath](Lore_Falkreath.md) (also called **Falcrenth** or **Falcreath**) is one of the nine major cities in the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), serving as the capital of [Falkreath Hold](Lore_Falkreath_Hold.md) and the boreal forest. Its name derives from [Elvish](Lore_Aldmeris_(language).md), though its meaning is unknown. The city is known as the "heroes' graveyard"; many great battles took place here for centuries, and countless warriors were buried here, leaving behind graves and monuments to them. Because of the nature of the city, the merchants of Falkreath are known to reflect the melancholic themes of [death](Lore_Death.md#Nord_Beliefs_and_Customs) in their business.

## Falkreath Hold
[Falkreath Hold](Lore_Falkreath_Hold.md) (or simply called **Falkreath**) is one of the main [holds](Lore_Hold.md) of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), known for its lush pine forest. [Lake Ilinalta](Lore_Lake_Ilinalta.md), the province's largest body of freshwater, constitutes a significant portion of the hold. The people of the hold are generally prosperous farmers and loggers, thanks to the Ilinalta. Falkreath has an ancient association with battle and [death](Lore_Nord_Death_Beliefs.md). Like the hold, the capital city is called [Falkreath](Lore_Falkreath.md), but it is also known as the "heroes' graveyard". It contains one of the largest cemeteries in the province. Falkreath's alignment has sometimes shifted between the Kingdom of Skyrim and the [Colovian Estates](Lore_Colovian_Estates.md), the autonomous government of western [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md).

## Falkreath Watchtower
[Falkreath](Lore_Falkreath.md) (also called **Falcrenth** or **Falcreath**) is one of the nine major cities in the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), serving as the capital of [Falkreath Hold](Lore_Falkreath_Hold.md) and the boreal forest. Its name derives from [Elvish](Lore_Aldmeris_(language).md), though its meaning is unknown. The city is known as the "heroes' graveyard"; many great battles took place here for centuries, and countless warriors were buried here, leaving behind graves and monuments to them. Because of the nature of the city, the merchants of Falkreath are known to reflect the melancholic themes of [death](Lore_Death.md#Nord_Beliefs_and_Customs) in their business.

## Fallowstone Hall
[Fallowstone Hall](Lore_Fallowstone_Hall.md) was a historical hall located in the northern hills of [the Rift](Lore_The_Rift.md), in the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). It was an ancient site built and occupied by the [Companions](Lore_Companions.md), the guild of mercenaries active in Skyrim. It was their main holdout in the region, created by one of the original Five Hundred Companions and it currently serves as both a museum and mortuary for their dead brethren.

## Fanacas
[Fanacas](Lore_Fanacas.md) is an [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) [ruin](Lore_Ayleid_Ruins.md) found within the [Valus Mountains](Lore_Valus_Mountains.md), in the province of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). In its time, Fanacas was a mining hold for the [Nedic](Lore_Nede.md) slaves. For the longest time, it contained one of the [Ten Ancestors](Lore_Ten_Ancestors.md), religious artifacts that were once displayed at the [Temple of the Ancestors](Lore_White-Gold_Tower.md). It was among the only modern Ayleid sites that still bore their ancient names by the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md).

## Fanacasecul
[Fanacasecul](Lore_Fanacasecul.md) was an [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleids.md) settlement located on the southwestern shore of [Lake Rumare](Lore_Lake_Rumare.md), in the [Heartlands](Lore_Heartlands.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md).

## Fang Lair
[Fang Lair](Lore_Fang_Lair.md), also known by its Dwemeri name **Arkngthamz-Phng**, is a ruin of a [Dwarven](Lore_Dwemer.md) city and mine located in [Dragon's Teeth Mountains](Lore_Dragon%27s_Teeth_Mountains.md), on the border between [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md) and [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), and near the border with [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md).

## Faolan's Ire
[Faolan's Ire](Lore_Faolan%27s_Ire.md) is a landmark in the southeastern parts of [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md), north of [Gloomreach](Lore_Gloomreach.md) and [Lost Valley Redoubt](Lore_Lost_Valley_Redoubt.md) and west of [Hroldan Ring](Lore_Old_Hroldan.md) at the banks of the [Karth River](Lore_Karth_River.md).

## Faregyl
[Faregyl](Lore_Faregyl.md) is a historical settlement in the southern [Great Forest](Lore_Great_Forest.md) in the province of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). It is located around the central crossroad of the northern [Green Road](Lore_Green_Road.md), between the [Red Ring Road](Lore_Red_Ring_Road.md) and [Bravil](Lore_Bravil.md), but has changed over the years. In the mid- [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), it was known as **Castle Faregyl**, a large keep surrounded by scattered clusters of floating [welkynd stones](Lore_Welkynd_Stone.md) but from the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md) and onward, the **Faregyl Inn** sat on the crossroad.

## Fargrave
[Fargrave](Lore_Fargrave.md), also known as the **Celestial Palanquin**, is an obscure demiplane of [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md), functioning as a crossroads where the paths through Oblivion become easier to navigate. With no [Prince](Lore_Daedric_Princes.md), the accords that make it harder for other realms to connect to Nirn do not apply, making it a convenient way station between Nirn and the rest of Oblivion. In appearance, it is a large desert wasteland filled with [gargantuan skeletons](Lore_Bearers_of_Fargrave.md) and surrounded by an auroral sky.

[Daedra](Lore_Daedra.md) and mortals alike can be found here, engaging in trade on a planar level. The inhabitants prefer their privacy, and as such not many in the mortal world are aware of its existence. Through the use of relics such as portal keys, one can move through Fargrave with impunity to reach Nirn and Oblivion. According to some of the Daedric inhabitants, without a Prince to set the laws and manipulate Fargrave's reality, the local Daedra are afforded a great deal of freedom, allowing them to shape their dwelling as they choose.

## Far Shores
The [Far Shores](Lore_Far_Shores.md), also called the **Walkabout**<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_nb1)</sup> and the **Far Dunes**, is the afterlife sought by the [Redguards](Lore_Redguard.md). According to [Yokudan](Lore_Yokuda.md) myth, [Satakal](Lore_Satakal.md), the serpentine God of Everything, eats itself over and over, periodically consuming all of creation. By "moving at strange angles" to stride between "worldskins", a process known as the Walkabout, the strongest of the spirits learned to bypass this cycle of destruction. Thanks to [Ruptga](Lore_Ruptga.md)'s guidance, many weaker spirits were able to find their way as well, and the practice became so easy that it became a place—the Far Shores. Here, the spirits can safely wait until Satakal has passed and a new skin has emerged. There is no hunger or thirst in the Far Shores, but there are ample martial challenges to keep Redguard warrior-spirits engaged for eternity.

## Farrun
[Farrun](Lore_Farrun.md) (or **Fharun**) is a northern port city on the north shore of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md), and one of eight kingdoms in the province. It is known for its icy winters. The kingdom of Farrun has existed since the First Era; one notable citizen of Farrun in the First Era was Lord Storig, who commanded the vanguard of the [Imperial army](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md) at the Battle of Bodrum in [1E 2920](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_2920) during the [Four-Score War](Lore_Four-Score_War.md). By the Second Era it was an Orcish stronghold by the name of Fharun, named after the [Fharun Clan](Lore_Fharun_Clan.md). The stronghold was infamous for its [Breton](Lore_Breton.md) -designed prison complex, which was notorious even among the Orcs.

## Fathis Aren's Tower
[Fathis Aren's Tower](Lore_Fathis_Aren%27s_Tower.md), also known as the **Temple of the Emperor Zero**, is a ruined fort along the [Green Road](Lore_Green_Road.md) south of [Bravil](Lore_Bravil.md), in the [Nibenay Valley](Lore_Nibenay_Valley.md) region of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md).

The tower possesses an extensive underground complex, connected to a grotto that extends deep under [Niben Bay](Lore_Niben_Bay.md). Some parts of the grotto are flooded and provide access to the bottom of the bay. These flooded passages are home to [slaughterfish](Lore_Slaughterfish.md), including the rare [giant slaughterfish](Lore_Giant_Slaughterfish.md). The grotto extends all the way to Bravil, allowing access to the tower from a secret passage in Castle Bravil.

## Fathoms Drift
[Fathoms Drift](Lore_Fathoms_Drift.md) is a large ship graveyard on the Abyssal Sea of [Apocrypha](Lore_Apocrypha.md), specifically in the Chroma Incognito region. As is perpetuated in [Tamrielic](Lore_Tamriel.md) myths of the sea, Fathoms Drift is where [Hermaeus Mora](Lore_Hermaeus_Mora.md), the master of the seas, takes ships consumed by the oceans. These ships were usually helmed by people who took the sea and Hermaeus Mora's power lightly or carried forbidden cargo. The dead crews haunt the site as [ghosts](Lore_Ghost.md) while the wreckage and rocks are floating in suspension in the sky.

## Feywatch Isle
The [Feywatch Isle](Lore_Feywatch_Isle.md) is a lake island situated on the northeastern coast of [High Isle](Lore_High_Isle.md) within a lake with an unknown name. It harbored a volcanic vent. It is positioned to the north of [Tor Draioch](Lore_Tor_Draioch.md) and to the south of the Duford Shipyards.

In [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582) the tranquility of the archipelago was disrupted as not only Feywatch Isle's volcanic vent but several others across the archipelago erupted. The island's normally placid surroundings were thrown into chaos as a volcanic vent on Feywatch Isle became increasingly active. This unexpected eruption was attributed to a mysterious disturbance in the local environment. It was one of many vents in the region that were calmed by the [Druids](Lore_Druids.md) of the [Stonelore Circle](Lore_Stonelore_Circle.md) and [their associates](Lore_The_Vestige.md) during that period.

At that time a [skyshard](Lore_Skyshard.md), a shard of [meteoric glass](Lore_Meteoric_Glass.md) imbued with mystical energy, was positioned between Feywatch Isle and the towering structure of Tor Draioch, overlooking the isle.

## Fellmoor
[Fellmoor](Lore_Fellmoor.md) is a village in the [Dementia](Lore_Dementia_(place).md) region of the [Shivering Isles](Lore_Shivering_Isles.md). It lies along the western coast, southeast of [the Fringe](Lore_Fringe.md), and can be reached via Pinnacle Road. The settlement is dedicated to [Water Root Pod](Lore_Water_Root_Pod.md) farming. These bulbous plants are grown in shallow water and harvested for their [Pod Pits](Lore_Water_Root_Pod_Pit.md).

Fellmoor is noted for the many varieties of [wine](Lore_Wine.md#Fellmoor_Wine) produced there. Fellmoor Red Wine, Fellmoor Spore Wine, and Fellmoor Swamp Wine are all popular beverages among the mortal inhabitants of the Isles.

Circa [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433), the farm was being run by a neurotic [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md) woman named Cindanwe, whose strong work ethic made her unpopular with the field hands.

## Felsaad Coast
The [Felsaad Coast](Lore_Felsaad_Coast.md) is the snowy, lightly forested northeastern region on the island of [Solstheim](Lore_Solstheim.md). The [Isild River](Lore_Isild_River.md) separates it from the [Moesring Mountains](Lore_Moesring_Mountains.md) region to the west, and it fades into forest to the south. The area is relatively rich in wildlife; many [horkers](Lore_Horker.md), [bristlebacks](Lore_Bristleback.md), [snow wolves](Lore_Snow_Wolf.md), and other creatures roam the land. [Skaal Village](Lore_Skaal_Village.md) and [Thirsk](Lore_Thirsk.md) are both located here, as are many barrows and ice caves.

## Fields of Regret
The [Fields of Regret](Lore_Fields_of_Regret.md) are a [realm](Lore_Planes_of_Existence.md) of [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md), created and ruled over by [Clavicus Vile](Lore_Clavicus_Vile.md), the [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Princes.md) of Wishes. The realm appears as a tranquil countryside, dotted with majestic cities of glass and ornate buildings and populated by [Skaafin](Lore_Skaafin.md). It contains dense forests, lakes, and mountains, with floating golden metals and stone spirals filling the landscape. The city of [Umbriel](Lore_Umbriel.md) was once a part of the realm, but was eventually severed and came to rest in the [Realm of the Hist](Lore_Realm_of_the_Hist.md).

According to some sources, the Fields of Regret are not a place in the same sense that a place on [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md) is, rather the realm is a "state of mind", specifically the state of mind of Clavicus Vile, which reflects on the realm and causes everything there to be exactly as Vile wishes it to be. Thus its form is said to represent Vile's mindset, a green, sunny and pleasant land interspersed with tranquil ponds under an expanse of clear blue sky, reflecting Vile's view of himself as a playful and fun-loving god who basks alongside his companion, Barbas, the pleasant appearance concealing Vile's true temperament which is likened to that of a child cruelly playing with insects.

## Firemoth
[Firemoth](Lore_Firemoth.md) (also known as **Firemoth Island** or the **Firemoth Region**) is a region encompassing a ring of barren islands located in the [Inner Sea](Lore_Inner_Sea.md). The islands often suffer heavy storms, and the bare volcanic rock provides little nourishment for flora. Hardy [trama shrubs](Lore_Trama.md) and stark, leafless trees can survive the ashen, bitter soil, and [marshmerrow reeds](Lore_Marshmerrow.md) flourish along the sandy beaches, but otherwise the islands are devoid of life.

## Firewatch
[Firewatch](Lore_Firewatch.md) is one of the eight major cities on the mainland of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md), settled on badlands along the shores of the [Sea of Ghosts](Lore_Sea_of_Ghosts.md). Firewatch is found in eastern Morrowind, which is the territory of [House Indoril](Lore_House_Indoril.md). The city acquires its name because of its proximity to [Red Mountain](Lore_Red_Mountain.md) from the mainland. It is a beautiful city at peace that safely provides a grand vista of the volcano from within its walls, but is not without its own inner dangers. The terrain near the city consists of mesas, arid plateaus, and high steppes. There is a large unnamed island found north of the city, and the famous Indoril fortress of Bal Tereg is found close by.

## Firsthold
[Firsthold](Lore_Firsthold.md) (also spelled as **First Hold**) is one of the eight major cities in the province of the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md) and is located on the northernmost tip of [Auridon](Lore_Auridon.md), the second-largest island of the archipelago. Just as the name references, Firsthold is the oldest city in the province and was founded by the first [Aldmeri](Lore_Aldmer.md) inhabitants of Tamriel, who had previously sailed across the [Eltheric Ocean](Lore_Eltheric_Ocean.md) to escape the destruction of their homeland, [Aldmeris](Lore_Aldmeris.md). The city is also where the mage [Vanus Galerion](Lore_Vanus_Galerion.md) founded the original [Mages Guild](Lore_Mages_Guild.md) charter and thus provided the common people with access to [magic](Lore_Magic.md) and other arcane pursuits.

## The Five Finger Dance
The [Five Finger Dance](Lore_Five_Finger_Dance.md) (also called **Baan Dar**) is the realm of [Baan Dar](Lore_Baan_Dar.md), the Bandit God and trickster spirit of thieves and beggars in primarily [Khajiiti](Lore_Khajiit.md) culture. Among the deity's followers, the Five Finger Dance is considered the greatest party in existence and many compete in an event called the Boast to earn Baan Dar's favor and enter his realm. These events are held all once a year in [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) and are overseen in secret by the Daughters of Baan Dar.

## Lake Fjalding
[Lake Fjalding](Lore_Lake_Fjalding.md) is the largest lake on [Solstheim](Lore_Solstheim.md), although it is covered by ice year-round. It is commonly used as a mating ground for the [horkers](Lore_Horker.md) of the island. The [Iggnir River](Lore_Iggnir_River.md) to the south and the [Isild River](Lore_Isild_River.md) to the north flow from here, in the [Felsaad Coast](Lore_Felsaad_Coast.md) region due north of [Fort Frostmoth](Lore_Fort_Frostmoth.md). The [Isinfier Plains](Lore_Isinfier_Plains.md) lie to the south. The [Thirsk](Lore_Thirsk.md) mead hall is on the eastern coast of the lake.

For more information, see the [main Lore article](Lore_Lake_Fjalding.md).

## Fogbreak Lighthouse Island
[Fogbreak Lighthouse Island](Lore_Fogbreak_Lighthouse_Island.md) is an island located within the [Systres Archipelago](Lore_Systres_Archipelago.md), named for **Fogbreak Lighthouse** which can be found atop its highest point. It lies north of the [High Isle](Lore_High_Isle.md), southeast of [Galen](Lore_Galen.md), southwest of [Y'ffelon](Lore_Y%27ffelon.md), and west of [Amenos](Lore_Amenos.md). It is surrounded by a ring of smaller rocks and islets. The flora on the island consists of gorse, beech, cypress, pine, dogwood, sea daffodil, and lizard tail. Additionally, [coral](Lore_Coral.md) formations can be found along the shore.

## Folgunthur
[Folgunthur](Lore_Folgunthur.md) is an ancient Nordic barrow found in the northern coast of [Hjaalmarch](Lore_Hjaalmarch.md), in the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). At the base of the [Great Arch](Lore_Great_Arch.md) that holds [Solitude](Lore_Solitude.md), this ancient tomb is known for containing the remains of Mikrul Gauldurson, the youngest son of the auspicious but forgotten [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md) mage, [Gauldur](Lore_Gauldur.md). It had also contained a [Word Wall](Lore_Word_Walls.md), and the great treasure trove of the master [illusionist](Lore_Illusion.md), [Maelmoth the Mysterious](Lore_Maelmoth.md).

## Forelhost
[Forelhost](Lore_Forelhost.md) is an ancient [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) ruin with a [Word Wall](Lore_Word_Walls.md) located in [the Rift](Lore_The_Rift.md) in [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). It is located high atop the mountain of the same name and suffers from a dangerously cold climate.

During the time of the [Dragon Cult](Lore_Dragon_Cult.md), Forelhost served as a great monastery. It was home to two notable [dragon priests](Lore_Dragon_Priest.md) and their respective [masks](Lore_Dragon_Priest_Masks.md): [Rahgot](Lore_Rahgot.md) and [Vosis](Lore_Dragon_Priest_Masks.md#Vosis). Following the [Dragon War](Lore_Dragon_War.md), Forelhost became the last known holdout of the cult. It was discovered by the forces of [High King Harald](Lore_Harald.md) in [1E 139](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_139), who besieged the monastery for several months under the command of [Skorm Snow-Strider](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Skorm_Snow-Strider).

Despite the cold, the besiegers eventually succeeded in breaking through the defenses in [1E 140](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_140), using the [Voice](Lore_Thu%27um.md) to bring down the main gate. Once inside however, they discovered that the cultists had committed ritual suicide, going so far as to poison the well water. Their sacrifice created a magical barrier, sealing the upper courtyard for decades afterwards and preventing Skorm's advance. The cultists had believed they would be returned to life when the [dragons](Lore_Dragon.md) returned to [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md), as had been foreseen by a cultist named Thorallod. The monastery subsequently fell into ruin, haunted by [draugr](Lore_Draugr.md) and the ghosts of the cultists.

## Forest Realm
The [forest realm](Lore_Forest_Realm.md) is a mysterious realm of existence. It was created by the [Wilderking](Lore_Wilderking.md) as part of a pact with the denizens of the [Shrouded Vale](Lore_Shrouded_Vale.md). Every one hundred years or so, a caretaker is left alone on [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) to provide for the [Fading Tree](Lore_Fading_Tree.md). In return, the Wilderking provides a safe haven for Shrouded Hollow, causing the village to disappear, only coming back to choose a new caretaker.

When the village disappears, it is transported to an unknown place referred to as the forest realm. This realm is described as a place totally unlike [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md), without hunger or suffering, where the denizens of Shrouded Hollow live peacefully and without fear. Even the light in this place is different in comparison to Tamriel, which the inhabitants of the Vale refer to as the "mundane world".

## Forest of Dreams
The [Forest of Dreams](Lore_Forest_of_Dreams.md) is a place associated with [Kyne](Lore_Kyne.md), the [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) goddess of the Storm, widow of [Shor](Lore_Shor.md), the Blessed Warrior-Wife, and a favored god of warriors. According to certain beliefs of the ancient Nords, some servants of Kyne found eternal rest in the Forest of Dreams, such as Hela, who was commemorated with a [Word Wall](Lore_Word_Walls.md) and remembered as a "friend to all beasts".

## Forest of Elborn
The **Forest of Elborn** (or simply **Elborn**)<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-ARExclamations-1)</sup> is a location associated with the [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md) of the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md), who often use the exclamation, *"By the Wood of Elborn."*<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-ARExclamations-1)</sup> It is primarily known for being the burial place of [Phynaster](Lore_Phynaster.md), the Hero-God of Summerset.<sup>[[2]](#cite_note-AD-2)</sup>

## Forgotten Vale
The [Forgotten Vale](Lore_Forgotten_Vale.md) is massive and sprawling secluded ice-encrusted land dotted with the remains of [Snow Elf](Lore_Snow_Elf.md) architecture. Located in the [Druadach Mountains](Lore_Druadach_Mountains.md), it is viewed on maps as being within the borders of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md) and bordering northwestern [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md)'s Haafingar area. It is a glacial valley, with icy crevices, forests, a river and a large frozen lake. Its seclusion from the rest of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) has resulted in unique forms of bioluminescent flora and fauna, seemingly adapted for subterranean dwelling.

The vale is difficult to reach, requiring the navigation through the Darkfall Cave systems to enter from the outside world. It was chosen by the ancient [Snow Elves](Lore_Snow_Elf.md) as the site of the [Chantry of Auri-El](Lore_Chantry_of_Auri-El.md), the civilization's center of worship of [Auri-El](Lore_Auri-El.md). The elves built a large sanctum into the mountains, overlooking the valley, as well as five [Wayshrines](Lore_Wayshrines.md) of Auri-El. Magical teleportation in the form of portals were used to navigate and link the area. In order to reach enlightenment and "become one with Auri-El", initiates of the Chantry made a pilgrimage to each of the five Wayshrines, navigating the treacherous vale with a ewer of water to gain access to the temple's inner sanctum. Due to the Chantry's isolation, it remained unaffected by the invasion of the [Nords](Lore_Nord.md), though the Falmer somehow spread to the vale and overwhelmed the Chantry by their sheer numbers, wiping out the final bastion of Snow Elves.

## Fort Alessia
[Fort Alessia](Lore_Fort_Alessia.md) (also known as **Castle Alessia**) is a ruined military fort located on the [Red Ring Road](Lore_Red_Ring_Road.md), southeast of the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md) in the [Great Forest](Lore_Great_Forest.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), in an area known as the Bloody Grasslands. The fort is located just east of the [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) ruins of [Sardavar Leed](Lore_Sardavar_Leed.md), where Saint [Alessia](Lore_Alessia.md) was raised as a slave. It can be assumed that the fort was named in her honor.

During the [Alliance War](Lore_Alliance_War.md) of [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), Castle Alessia was an expansive and strategically important keep. It had its own farm, mine and lumbermill, and was heavily fortified. Likely due to the proximity of Sardavar Leed, the castle bore a clear Ayleid influence, with [Welkynd Stones](Lore_Welkynd_Stone.md) incorporated into the architecture. It was initially located within the territory held by the [Aldmeri Dominion](Lore_Aldmeri_Dominion.md), and its central location made it essential for control of the Imperial City. The keep changed hands many times over the course of the war. The nearby Alessia Bridge once spanned the [Upper Niben](Lore_Upper_Niben.md).

The fort was abandoned by the [Imperial Legion](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md) during the relatively peaceful [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md). By the time of the [Oblivion Crisis](Lore_Oblivion_Crisis.md) in [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433), Fort Alessia was no more than a ruin, controlled by a hostile band of marauders.

## Fort Amol
[Fort Amol](Lore_Fort_Amol.md) (or simply called **Amol**) is a fortified settlement found in the region of [Eastmarch](Lore_Eastmarch.md), within the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). Fort Amol was a noteworthy settlement that was occupied by a Jarl, but it would soon fall into disrepair, and become the regional stronghold for Eastmarch. Also, Amol was at times the name of a town in northeastern Skyrim on the road between [Windhelm](Lore_Windhelm.md) and [Winterhold](Lore_Winterhold_(city).md).

## Fort Ash
[Fort Ash](Lore_Fort_Ash.md) is a ruined keep located deep in the [Great Forest](Lore_Great_Forest.md), in the province of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). Fort Ash is strategically located on the [Black Road](Lore_Black_Road.md), between the [Red Ring Road](Lore_Red_Ring_Road.md) and the city of [Chorrol](Lore_Chorrol.md). During the [Three Banners War](Lore_Three_Banners_War.md) in the mid- [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), Fort Ash was one of the six vital keeps that determined control of the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md).

## Fort Blueblood
[Fort Blueblood](Lore_Fort_Blueblood.md) is a ruined military fort located southeast of [Leyawiin](Lore_Leyawiin.md), in the [Blackwood](Lore_Blackwood.md) region of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md).

## Fort Chalman
[Fort Chalman](Lore_Fort_Chalman.md) (also known as **Chalman Keep**) is a ruined military fort located on the [Red Ring Road](Lore_Red_Ring_Road.md), northeast of the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md).

## Fort Farragut
[Fort Farragut](Lore_Fort_Farragut.md) (also known as **Farragut Keep**) is a ruined military fort located on the foothills of the [Valus Mountains](Lore_Valus_Mountains.md) northeast of [Cheydinhal](Lore_Cheydinhal.md), in the [Nibenay Basin](Lore_Nibenay_Basin.md) region of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md).

During the [Alliance War](Lore_Alliance_War.md) of [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), Farragut was an expansive and strategically important keep. It had its own farm, mine and lumbermill, and was heavily fortified. It was initially located within the territory held by the [Ebonheart Pact](Lore_Ebonheart_Pact.md), and its main function was the defense of the Elder Scroll of Ghartok, which was held in a temple to the northeast. The keep changed hands many times over the course of the war.

The fort was abandoned by the [Imperial Legion](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md) during the relatively peaceful [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md). By the time of the [Oblivion Crisis](Lore_Oblivion_Crisis.md), Fort Farragut was no more than a ruin. It had been taken as a lair by [Lucien Lachance](Lore_Lucien_Lachance.md), a Speaker for the [Black Hand](Lore_Black_Hand.md) of the [Dark Brotherhood](Lore_Dark_Brotherhood.md) who administered the nearby Cheydinhal Sanctuary. As such, it was infested with undead skeletal guardians in service to the Brotherhood. Lachance was forced to flee the ruins in [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433) after he was framed as a traitor. The fort was placed under watch by the [Black Hand](Lore_Black_Hand.md) at this time, in case Lachance attempted to return.

## Fort Frostmoth
[Fort Frostmoth](Lore_Fort_Frostmoth.md) was the primary [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) settlement on the south coast of [Solstheim](Lore_Solstheim.md), in the [Hirstaang Forest](Lore_Hirstaang_Forest.md). It was established some time in the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), after the Imperial discovery of the island. The fort acted as the area office of the [East Empire Company](Lore_East_Empire_Company.md), established on Solstheim to mine the rich deposits of [ebony](Lore_Ebony.md) from [Raven Rock](Lore_Raven_Rock.md), and was also the main link to [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md) by way of [Khuul](Lore_Khuul.md). The sizeable garrison was one of the few signs of civilization on the island, apart from the colony. The fort was known among the [legionnaires](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md) as a punishment detail, due partly to the unpleasant weather and partly due to the mead. Unruly soldiers were usually sent to the fort as penance, and the locals viewed them as nothing more than Imperials who had no respect for the island.

## Fort Grief
[Fort Grief](Lore_Fort_Grief.md) is a ruined [Imperial Legion](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md) fort located on **Fort Grief Island**, an island at the mouth of the [Silverfish River](Lore_Silverfish_River.md) in [Niben Bay](Lore_Niben_Bay.md).

## Fort Hastrel
[Fort Hastrel](Lore_Fort_Hastrel.md) is a ruined [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) watchtower in the [Colovian Highlands](Lore_Colovian_Highlands.md), in the province of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). It is a picturesque relic of the [First Empire](Lore_Alessian_Empire.md), located near the ancient Highlands Road. **Hastrel Hollow** is a nearby [Ayleid ruin](Lore_Ayleid_Ruins.md) to the southeast of the tower.

## Fort Homestead
[Fort Homestead](Lore_Fort_Homestead.md) (also called the **Homestead Ruins**) is a ruined fort located on the southern shore of [Lake Rumare](Lore_Lake_Rumare.md), east of the [White Rose River](Lore_White_Rose_River.md) in the [Heartlands](Lore_Heartlands.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). It can be found just off the [Red Ring Road](Lore_Red_Ring_Road.md), in the region known as the Southwestern Shore. It contains subterranean passages which lead to the Heroes' Hall, a large chamber deep underground.

At the start of the [Alliance War](Lore_Alliance_War.md) of [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), bandits moved into the ruins of Homestead as [Legion](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md) patrols became less frequent. Eventually the Homestead bandits became emboldened enough to outright attack the settlement of [Pell's Gate](Lore_Pell%27s_Gate.md) to the south, which they then occupied and destroyed. A bridge connected the ruins to [City Isle](Lore_City_Isle.md) at the time, although it was shattered by the [Planemeld](Lore_Planemeld.md) and subsequently put under heavy guard by [Daedra](Lore_Daedra.md). The ruins were within the territory initially controlled by the [Aldmeri Dominion](Lore_Aldmeri_Dominion.md), although none of the participants in the war attempted to capture the fort.

By [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433), the fort's underground passages were home to bandits and marauders. No sign remained of the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md) bridge to City Isle.

## Fort Istirus
[Fort Istirus](Lore_Fort_Istirus.md) (alternatively known as the **Istirus Outpost**) is an [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) ruin found in the region of the [West Weald](Lore_West_Weald.md), within the province of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). It is built along the [Strid River](Lore_Strid_River.md), to protect the large body of water from the mass pirate activities.

## Fort Magia
[Fort Magia](Lore_Fort_Magia.md) (also known as the **Magia Ruins**) is a ruined military fort located east of the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md), along the [Red Ring Road](Lore_Red_Ring_Road.md). It lies in the [Heartlands](Lore_Heartlands.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), on the eastern shore of [Lake Rumare](Lore_Lake_Rumare.md), right across the water from the [Wellspring Grove](Lore_Wellspring_Grove.md). The ruins possess a partially-flooded underground complex, including garrison blocks and memorials to fallen legionnaires.

During the [Three Banners War](Lore_Three_Banners_War.md) of [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), the crumbling remains of Fort Magia served no military purpose. Instead, the surface ruins were infested by flesh-hungry undead [skeletons](Lore_Skeleton.md). Around this time, a scholar from [Davon's Watch](Lore_Davon%27s_Watch.md) named Thirobar was tricked into venturing to the site by their headmaster in search of a "plethora of ancient lore". Instead, Thirobar's servants and pack animals were torn apart by the undead and eaten. Thirobar climbed to safety atop a ruined tower and lived there for three days before dying during an attempted descent.

The fort was seemingly occupied and once again abandoned by the [Imperial Legion](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md) during the relatively peaceful [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md). By the time of the [Oblivion Crisis](Lore_Oblivion_Crisis.md) in [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433), Fort Magia was a partially-flooded ruin infested by undead and hostile aquatic life. It was around this time that Fort Magia possessed one of the last samples of [Shadowbanish Wine](Lore_Shadowbanish_Wine.md) in Cyrodiil. It was collected by the [Hero of Kvatch](Lore_Hero_of_Kvatch.md) and later given to the publican of [Weye](Lore_Weye.md)'s inn, Nerussa, who was also an avid wine collector.

## Fort Redmane
[Fort Redmane](Lore_Fort_Redmane.md) (also called **Fort Redman** and formerly **Fort Niben**) is an Imperial fort located on the banks of the [Niben River](Lore_Niben_River.md), in the province of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). The fort was originally built to defend the [Second Empire](Lore_Second_Empire.md)'s settlers in the south from [Anequine](Lore_Anequina.md) hunt-barons, but because the threat was much smaller than realized and the two kingdoms of [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md) were later under the Empire's control, Fort Redmane saw little use and it stands on the river waiting for a threat that may never come.

## Fort Sejanus
[Fort Sejanus](Lore_Fort_Sejanus.md) (also known as **Sejanus Outpost**) is a ruined military fort located southeast of the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md), in the [Nibenay Basin](Lore_Nibenay_Basin.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). It is located at the intersection of the [Red Ring Road](Lore_Red_Ring_Road.md) and the [Yellow Road](Lore_Yellow_Road.md). The ruins possess an underground complex, including catacombs on the lowest level. The fort shares its name with the **Sejanus Hunting Grounds**, a region of open terrain to the northeast where the ruins of [Nagastani](Lore_Nagastani.md) can be found.

During the [Three Banners War](Lore_Three_Banners_War.md) of [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), a small fort called Sejanus Outpost was located here. It was initially held by the [Ebonheart Pact](Lore_Ebonheart_Pact.md), although the outpost changed hands many times over the course of the war. Its strategic position was critical to maintain supply lines.

The fort was abandoned by the [Imperial Legion](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md) during the relatively peaceful [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md). By the time of the [Oblivion Crisis](Lore_Oblivion_Crisis.md) in [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433), Fort Sejanus was no more than a ruin, controlled by a hostile group of [conjurers](Lore_Conjuration.md) and their [Daedric](Lore_Daedra.md) minions. Despite the conjurers' presence, the fort's catacombs were haunted by [undead](Lore_Undead.md).

## Fort Sphinxmoth
[Fort Sphinxmoth](Lore_Fort_Sphinxmoth.md) (or **Sphinxmoth Legion Fort**) is a fortress in the [Reaper's March](Lore_Reaper%27s_March.md) region, in [Anequina](Lore_Anequina.md), [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md). It is located north of the city of [Dune](Lore_Dune.md), close to the border with [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md) and [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md).

## Fort Strand
[Fort Strand](Lore_Fort_Strand.md) is a ruined fort located just east of [Anvil](Lore_Anvil.md), in the [Gold Coast](Lore_Gold_Coast.md) region of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). It has an extensive underground complex, including a large natural chasm and a subterranean chamber called the Great Dome.

The fort was already a crumbling ruin by [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), at which time it served as a smuggler den. A chest of [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md) martial relics was taken to the ruins that year from a dig site at Tribune's Folly. The researchers hired the Dragonstar Caravan Company to recover the relics, as the chest was guarded by supernatural shadowy guardians sent by Lord [Faleria](Lore_Nunex_Faleria.md).

By [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433), the fort was home to a marauder gang. A local [Nord](Lore_Nord.md) named Bjalfi the Contemptible brought the [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md) mace Rockshatter to the ruins when he joined the gang that year. He was killed when his deserted wife sent the [Hero of Kvatch](Lore_Hero_of_Kvatch.md) to the ruins to recover the mace.

## Fort Sungard
[Fort Sungard](Lore_Fort_Sungard.md) (or simply called **Sungard** or **Sunguard**) is a fortified settlement located in the [Tundra Plain](Lore_Tundra_Plain.md) on the edge of the [Tundra Plateau](Lore_Tundra_Plateau.md) of the region known as [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md), situated in the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). Fort Sungard is a historical bulwark at the tripoint of the Reach, [Whiterun Hold](Lore_Whiterun_Hold.md), and [Falkreath Hold](Lore_Falkreath_Hold.md) that is a key-strategic point in southern Skyrim, for the likes of [Markarth](Lore_Markarth.md) in the northwest, and the rest of southern Skyrim. It is famed for its incredible vista, which overlooks the [Karth River Canyon](Lore_Karth_River.md) from the plateau. Also, Sunguard was at times the name of a town in southeastern Skyrim on the road between [Riften](Lore_Riften.md) and [Whiterun](Lore_Whiterun.md).

## Fort Swampmoth
[Fort Swampmoth](Lore_Fort_Swampmoth.md) is a fortress in [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md). It was maintained by the [Imperial Legion](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md) during the time of the [Third Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md). During the [Oblivion Crisis](Lore_Oblivion_Crisis.md), rumors swirled that the Legions had been recalled from Fort Swampmoth.

## Fort Variela
[Fort Variela](Lore_Fort_Variela.md) (also known as **Variela's Watchtower** or simply **Variela**) is an ancient ruined military fort located inland from the western banks of the [Niben River](Lore_Niben_River.md), in the [Heartlands](Lore_Heartlands.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) far to the north of [Bravil](Lore_Bravil.md). It is connected by road to the nearby Lunar Fang Docks. The fort possesses an underground complex with staff quarters.

## Fort Virak
[Fort Virak](Lore_Fort_Virak.md) is a fortified mountain pass that is situated in the mountain basin of [Stonefalls](Lore_Stonefalls.md), in [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). Strategically located in the snow-laden valley of the [Velothi Mountains](Lore_Velothi_Mountains.md), it is a gated checkpoint between Morrowind to the east and [the Rift](Lore_The_Rift.md) of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) to the west. It serves as Stonefalls' western mainline of defense and has survived countless sieges throughout the years. Underneath the fort is a series of mazes that have since collapsed.

## Fortress of Ice
The [Fortress of Ice](Lore_Fortress_of_Ice.md) (also called the great **Ice Fortress of Winterhold**) is an ancient fortress located within the [Hold](Lore_Hold.md) of [Winterhold](Lore_Winterhold_(region).md) of the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), south of the [city of Winterhold](Lore_Winterhold_(city).md) in the vicinity of [Helarchen Creek](Lore_Helarchen_Creek.md) and [Amol](Lore_Amol.md). According to old texts, it was the home of Arch-Mage [Shalidor](Lore_Shalidor.md), where he presumably resided with his wife Ulfsild during his lifetime. Shalidor would later recount the Fortress as among his most accomplished feats.

## Four Skull Lookout
The [Four Skull Lookout](Lore_Four_Skull_Lookout.md) is a small [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) ruin situated between [Karthwasten](Lore_Karthwasten.md) and [Red Eagle Redoubt](Lore_Red_Eagle_Redoubt.md). It was known for its association with [destruction magic](Lore_Destruction.md).

## Foyada Ashur-Dan
[Foyada Ashur-Dan](Lore_Foyada_Ashur-Dan.md) is one of the several [foyadas](Lore_Foyada.md) of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md), the island district of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). The volcanic ravines (or "fire-rivers") are valleys formed by lava flows from [Red Mountain](Lore_Red_Mountain.md), functioning as drainage basins for lava when the volcano is active, or alternatively forming pathways to travel on when dormant and devoid of lava. The foyada starts at the caldera of Red Mountain and travels southeast through the [Ashlands](Lore_Ashlands.md), ending between Sanabi and Dulo Ancestral Tomb, though an opening is present on the east side near Zalkin-Sul Egg Mine.

Odrosal and Yanemus Mine are found along the foyada. Dunirai Caverns, Halit Mine, and Helas Ancestral Tomb are found between the [Foyada Esannudan](Lore_Foyada_Esannudan.md) and Ashur-Dan. Foyada Ashur-Dan was filled with lava at the time of the [Imperial Simulacrum](Lore_Imperial_Simulacrum.md). The foyada had dried up by the time of [the Blight](Lore_The_Blight.md) in [3E 427](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_427), and the [Ghostgate](Lore_Ghostgate.md) went through it.

## Foyada Bani-Dad
[Foyada Bani-Dad](Lore_Foyada_Bani-Dad.md) is one of the several [foyadas](Lore_Foyada.md) of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md), the island district of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). The volcanic ravines (or "fire-rivers") are valleys formed by lava flows from [Red Mountain](Lore_Red_Mountain.md), functioning as drainage basins for lava when the volcano is active, or alternatively forming pathways to travel on when dormant and devoid of lava.

The foyada starts at the caldera of Red Mountain and travels northwest through the [Ashlands](Lore_Ashlands.md) to the [Sea of Ghosts](Lore_Sea_of_Ghosts.md), where the ravine's seamouth is marked by a derelict shipwreck. This headland marks the coastal divide between the [West Gash](Lore_West_Gash.md) and the north Ashlands. Bani-Dad appears to be one of the largest foyadas on the island, second only to [Mamaea](Lore_Foyada_Mamaea.md).

## Foyada Drura
[Foyada Drura](Lore_Foyada_Drura.md) is one of the several [foyadas](Lore_Foyada.md) of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md), the island district of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). The volcanic ravines (or "fire-rivers") are valleys formed by lava flows from [Red Mountain](Lore_Red_Mountain.md), functioning as drainage basins for lava when the volcano is active, or alternatively forming pathways to travel on when dormant and devoid of lava. The foyada starts from the caldera of [Red Mountain](Lore_Red_Mountain.md) and travels south through the Ashlands in the west, surrounding [Ald'ruhn](Lore_Ald%27ruhn.md) on the northwest side. Hleran Ancestral Tomb is found at the end. When [Skar](Lore_Skar.md) fell in ancient times, Dranoth Hleran's people cried out for the quiet life with crops and strong houses, silencing their Velothi hearts and settling beside the fire river of Drura. Foyada Drura was filled with lava at the time of the [Imperial Simulacrum](Lore_Imperial_Simulacrum.md). The foyada had dried up by the time of [the Blight](Lore_The_Blight.md) in [3E 427](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_427).

## Foyada Esannudan
[Foyada Esannudan](Lore_Foyada_Esannudan.md) is one of the several [foyadas](Lore_Foyada.md) of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md), the island district of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). The volcanic ravines (or "fire-rivers") are valleys formed by lava flows from [Red Mountain](Lore_Red_Mountain.md), functioning as drainage basins for lava when the volcano is active, or alternatively forming pathways to travel on when dormant and devoid of lava.

The foyada branches off from Foyada Mamaea close to the caldera of [Red Mountain](Lore_Red_Mountain.md) and travels south through the Ashlands. Aryon Ancestral Tomb is found at the end, and Dunirai Caverns is found between Foyada Esannudan and [Foyada Ashur-Dan](Lore_Foyada_Ashur-Dan.md). Foyada Esannudan was filled with lava at the time of the [Imperial Simulacrum](Lore_Imperial_Simulacrum.md). The foyada had dried up by the time of [the Blight](Lore_The_Blight.md) in [3E 427](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_427), and though the [Ghostgate](Lore_Ghostgate.md) went through it, House Dagoth set up operations within Sharapli on the exterior.

## Foyada Ilibaal
[Foyada Ilibaal](Lore_Foyada_Ilibaal.md) is one of the several [foyadas](Lore_Foyada.md) of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md), the island district of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). The volcanic ravines (or "fire-rivers") are valleys formed by lava flows from [Red Mountain](Lore_Red_Mountain.md), functioning as drainage basins for lava when the volcano is active, or alternatively forming pathways to travel on when dormant and devoid of lava.

The foyada is found in [Molag Amur](Lore_Molag_Amur.md), stretching from from [Molag Mar](Lore_Molag_Mar.md) to [Mount Kand](Lore_Mount_Kand.md). Foyada Ilibaal was filled with lava at the time of the [Imperial Simulacrum](Lore_Imperial_Simulacrum.md). The foyada had dried up by the time of [the Blight](Lore_The_Blight.md) in [3E 427](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_427).

## Foyada Mamaea
[Foyada Mamaea](Lore_Foyada_Mamaea.md) is one of the several [fire-rivers](Lore_Foyada.md) of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md), the island district of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). It is very old, and is also very recognizable thanks to its large size.

The foyada starts from the caldera of [Red Mountain](Lore_Red_Mountain.md) travels south through the southwest quadrant of the island until it reaches the southern tip of the [West Gash](Lore_West_Gash.md), where it divides it from the [Ascadian Isles](Lore_Ascadian_Isles.md). The ravine is a major route that bridges the [Balmora](Lore_Balmora.md) – [Pelagiad](Lore_Pelagiad.md) road and directly leads to the [Ghostgate](Lore_Ghostgate.md). The path to the shrine is easy to follow, but dangerous beasts threaten pilgrims who travel this route.

Some places are built on the ravine, such as the Daedric shrine of Assarnatamat, the [Dwemer ruin](Lore_Dwemer_Ruins.md) of Arkngthand, the [ebony](Lore_Ebony.md) mines of Vassir-Didanat, the Imperial compound, [Moonmoth Legion Fort](Lore_Moonmoth_Legion_Fort.md), and the Yassu Glass Mine. Caves such as Adanumuran and Hassour are found in and around the ravine. Both the Shrine of Pride and the [Foyada Esannudan](Lore_Foyada_Esannudan.md) diverge from Foyada Mamaea.

## Foyada Nadanat
[Foyada Nadanat](Lore_Foyada_Nadanat.md) is one of the several [foyadas](Lore_Foyada.md) of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md), the island district of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). The volcanic ravines (or "fire-rivers") are valleys formed by lava flows from [Red Mountain](Lore_Red_Mountain.md), functioning as drainage basins for lava when the volcano is active, or alternatively forming pathways to travel on when dormant and devoid of lava.

The foyada is found in [Molag Amur](Lore_Molag_Amur.md), stretching from the south coast between [Suran](Lore_Suran.md) and Telasero and going northwest to the coast near [Tel Fyr](Lore_Tel_Fyr.md). Notably, the ruin of [Nchuleftingth](Lore_Nchuleftingth.md) is nestled in a bend of the foyada, and as such draws lava from it. Foyada Nadanat was filled with lava at the time of the [Imperial Simulacrum](Lore_Imperial_Simulacrum.md). The foyada had dried up by the time of [the Blight](Lore_The_Blight.md) in [3E 427](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_427).

## Foyada Zabirbael
[Foyada Zabirbael](Lore_Foyada_Zabirbael.md) is one of the several [foyadas](Lore_Foyada.md) of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md), the island district of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). The volcanic ravines (or "fire-rivers") are valleys formed by lava flows from [Red Mountain](Lore_Red_Mountain.md), functioning as drainage basins for lava when the volcano is active, or alternatively forming pathways to travel on when dormant and devoid of lava.

The foyada is found in [Molag Amur](Lore_Molag_Amur.md), stretching northeast from [Lake Nabia](Lore_Lake_Nabia.md), past [Mount Kand](Lore_Mount_Kand.md), all the way to [Mount Assarnibibi](Lore_Mount_Assarnibibi.md). Foyada Zabirbael was filled with lava at the time of the [Imperial Simulacrum](Lore_Imperial_Simulacrum.md). The foyada had dried up by the time of [the Blight](Lore_The_Blight.md) in [3E 427](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_427).

## The Fringe
[The Fringe](Lore_Fringe.md) is a region of [the Shivering Isles](Lore_Shivering_Isles.md) located on the western side of the main landmass. Although it largely appears to be located in the lands of [Dementia](Lore_Dementia_(place).md) (with some terrain on the north end more similar to [Mania](Lore_Mania.md)), the Fringe is considered to be completely separate from the realm proper. It is surrounded by high walls, preventing those within from entering the rest of the Isles until they have received Lord [Sheogorath](Lore_Sheogorath.md)'s "gift" of madness and can enter the realm through the Gates of Madness. It is the first place to be destroyed during any [Greymarch](Lore_Greymarch.md).

The Fringe has one main settlement, the town of [Passwall](Lore_Passwall.md), where mortals who find themselves in the Isles live while they wait for Sheogorath's blessing to take hold. The Fringe is under the same justice system as the Isles proper, but as no guards are posted within its walls, the bounty only comes into effect once the criminal passes through the Gates of Madness. The [Gardens of Flesh and Bone](Lore_Gardens_of_Flesh_and_Bone.md) can also be found here, as can the so-called **Garden of Swords** where weapons are grown from the soil.

## Frostbreak Fortress
The [Frostbreak Fortress](Lore_Frostbreak_Fortress.md) is a ruined stronghold found in the region of [Wrothgar](Lore_Wrothgar.md), within the province of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md). Frostbreak Fortress was built by [Bretons](Lore_Breton.md) to protect the short-lived Imperial Province of [Orsinium](Lore_Orsinium.md), which was established during the reign of [Savirien-Chorak](Lore_Savirien-Chorak.md), the last monarch of the [Akaviri Potentate](Lore_Akaviri_Potentate.md) era in the [Second Empire](Lore_Second_Empire.md). It is found in a small region of Wrothgar known as *Frostbreak Ridge*.

## Frostcrag Spire
[Frostcrag Spire](Lore_Frostcrag_Spire.md) is a large wizard's tower located high atop [Gnoll Mountain](Lore_Gnoll_Mountain.md) in the [Jerall Mountains](Lore_Jerall_Mountains.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), to the east of [Bruma](Lore_Bruma.md). The multilevel complex is navigable only through the use of teleportation pads. The tower also has a viewing platform, offering an unparalleled vista of the Imperial Province.

The Spire was designed and built in the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md) by [Arch-Mage Taris Rendil](Lore_Taris_Rendil.md), who was dissatisfied with living in the [Arcane University](Lore_Arcane_University.md). He read many tomes and ventured into ancient ruins seeking inspiration for his tower, and eventually decided to build it in the Jeralls. Rendil practiced his magic in peace for many years, and filled the Spire with his many inventions. He designed an Atronach Altar, which could be used to permanently summon atronach familiars for use as guardians.

By collaborating with the master alchemist [Sinderion](Lore_Sinderion.md), Rendil also created the Frostcrag Apparatus Table, and constructed an alchemy conservatory filled with plants from both Cyrodiil and [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md). Notably, Rendil managed to cultivate the [Nirnroot](Lore_Nirnroot.md), tame [Spiddal Plants](Lore_Spiddal_Plant.md) and [Harrada Root](Lore_Harrada_Root.md), and the rare [Mana Bloom](Lore_Mana_Bloom.md).

With permission from the [Mages Guild](Lore_Mages_Guild.md), he set up [spellmaking](Lore_Spellmaking.md) and [enchanting](Lore_Enchanting.md) altars, and portals to every Mages Guild guildhall in Cyrodiil. Rendil also created a teleport link between the Spire and an underground ice cave, which he used as a vault. He guarded the place with tamed [imps](Lore_Imp.md) called Vault Guardians. The cave also functioned as a tomb, and two people were buried there: Lennasaan, a mysterious writer, and Rindsey, a famous archer and ale aficionado responsible for the discovery of Daedric Lava Whiskey during an expedition to the [Deadlands](Lore_Deadlands.md).

As age began to overwhelm Rendil, he entrusted many of his belongings to Aurelinwae, an [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md) merchant living in the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md). In [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433), before he died, Rendil transferred the deed of ownership to his long-lost relative, the [Hero of Kvatch](Lore_Hero_of_Kvatch.md), hoping to prevent his home from falling into ruin. He then wrote his memoirs and sealed the Spire, leaving instructions on how to restore the tower to its former glory. The Hero granted his dying wish, by compensating Aurelinwae and returning Rendil's possessions to the tower.

During the [Oblivion Crisis](Lore_Oblivion_Crisis.md), an Oblivion Gate opened close to the Spire, but the structure was unaffected.

## Frostmere Crypt
[Frostmere Crypt](Lore_Frostmere_Crypt.md) is a Nordic ruin located on the mountain slopes of [the Pale](Lore_The_Pale.md), in the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). The crypt was built many years ago to seal away an ancient spirit named Aumriel. She is remembered in history and local folklore as the Pale Lady, a malicious ghost that wanders the northern [Drajkmyr Marsh](Lore_Drajkmyr_Marsh.md) and steals children while looking for her lost daughter. Deep in the crypt is her tomb, which is surrounded by a boreal glade and spring of water. On top of her sarcophagus is the Pale Blade, an ancient Nordic sword that keeps her from awakening.

## Frozen Coast
The [Frozen Coast](Lore_Frozen_Coast.md) is a large central region of the [Northern Coast](Lore_Northern_Coast.md) of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), bounded by the icy northern waters of the [Sea of Ghosts](Lore_Sea_of_Ghosts.md). It is a long stretch of frozen wasteland where the ice never thaws, from which it got its name. The region stretches between the northeast coast of [Hjaalmarch](Lore_Hjaalmarch.md) and the coast of [the Pale](Lore_The_Pale.md). It is anchored between the ancient barrow of [High Gate Ruins](Lore_High_Gate_Ruins.md) and the port-town of [Dawnstar](Lore_Dawnstar.md). The only semblance of civilization between them is camps occupied by anyone from bandits gathering for raids, or staging grounds for [Sea Giants](Lore_Sea_Giant.md).

## Fungal Lowlands
The **Fungal Lowlands** are a coastal region in east-central [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md), found within the [Indoril District](Lore_House_Indoril.md). It is a spacious tract of wilderness and fertile river valleys spanning along the [Inner Sea](Lore_Inner_Sea.md), with a number of secluded clearings between the roads and the coast. The [Sun's Death](Lore_Sun%27s_Death.md) eruption of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md) laid waste at least half of Morrowind and led to a permanent shift of population south towards the broad southern plains, where the flat land is now often for camping along the river. It borders the regions of [Bal Foyen](Lore_Bal_Foyen.md) to the west, the [Padomaic Crest](Lore_Padomaic_Crest.md) to the east, and the region of [Deshaan](Lore_Deshaan.md) to the south. Together with the Padomaic Crest, it was considered one of the two regions making up the [Telvanni Peninsula](Lore_Telvanni_Peninsula.md). The settlements of Ald Isra and Camonnaruhn were once found here, while the town of [Sailenmora](Lore_Sailen_Vulgate.md) emerged between the lowlands and the Crest.

## References
1. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-ARExclamations_1-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-ARExclamations_1-1)***</sup> [Exclamations — The Elder Scrolls: Arena](https://imperial-library.info/content/exclamations)
2. [^](#cite_ref-AD_2-0) [Artifact Dialogue — The Imperial Library](https://www.imperial-library.info/content/artifact-dialog)