# Telenger the Artificer Answers Your Questions 2

| Book Information | |
| --- | --- |
| Source: | - [ESO - Loremaster's Archive](Lore_Loremaster%27s_Archive.md) ([link](https://www.elderscrollsonline.com/en-us/news/post/25141)) |
| Writer | [Lawrence Schick](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/General:Lawrence_Schick) |

Telenger the Artificer Answers Your Questions 2 **by [Telenger the Artificer](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Telenger_the_Artificer)** *Telenger the Artificer answers more questions on lore*
---
**"I have two questions. Firstly, what is the [Sloads](Lore_Sload.md)' relationship like with the [Maormer](Lore_Maormer.md)? They seem like the only [race](Lore_Races.md) that would deal with them frequently. Secondly, do they have any connection to the rise of the [Worm Cult](Lore_Worm_Cult.md) on the mainland? Many thanks for your wisdom, and may [Mauloch](Lore_Mauloch.md) guide your staff and light your way." - Urgazul gro-Brashnuk, [Orsinium](Lore_Orsinium.md) Historian and Keeper of the Forge-Secrets**

[Telenger the Artificer](Lore_Telenger_the_Artificer.md) says, "Welcome, fellow scholar! As far as we in [Summerset](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md) can tell—and we have more experience of the Sload than any other folk—the Sload are hostile to all other mortal races. Though there is some evidence of diplomatic traffic between the Sload and the Maormer—see '[A Loathsome Civilization](Lore_A_Loathsome_Civilization.md)'—there are also plenty of accounts of conflict between the Slugmen and the Sea Elves. This is no surprise, since both Sea Elves and Sload are at war with all other mortal races. The Maormer's grievance seems to be that they got stuck with [Pyandonea](Lore_Pyandonea.md), a sad and swampy archipelago of malodorous islets; why the Sload are so belligerent to all others is unknown.

"As to your second question: I have heard speculation about an entente between the Sload and the self-styled [King of Worms](Lore_Mannimarco.md), but facts? Someone in [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) may know more, but I do not. I suppose the [Eyes of the Queen](Lore_Eyes_of_the_Queen.md) might know something, but if so, they haven't told me. And why would they?"

**"Most proficient Artificer, the grim fate of [Bendu Olo](Lore_Bendu_Olo.md)'s lost expedition members has recently come to light in the depths of [Coldharbour](Lore_Coldharbour.md). Was this [Coral Tower](Lore_Coral_Tower_(Thras).md) encountered by the [All-Flags Navy](Lore_All-Flags_Navy.md) similar in nature to the other [Towers](Lore_The_Towers.md) of [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md), or was it simply a [Daedric](Lore_Daedra.md) perversion?" – Legoless, Doyen of the United Explorers of Scholarly Pursuits**

Telenger the Artificer says, "Since the Coral Tower has fallen, at this point the best we can do is make educated guesses. In their own perverse way, the Sload are very capable sorcerers, and from all accounts the Coral Tower acted as both a focus and a projector of mystical power. I am not a scholar of Tower Lore—my interests tend more toward the practical—but this accords (somewhat) with what the mythohistorians claim is the purpose and practice of the so-called Towers of Nirn. Was the Coral Tower a 'real' Tower like [Lawful Crystal](Lore_Crystal_Tower.md), here in [Alinor](Lore_Alinor_(city).md), or was it a failed imitation, like the [Doomspire](Lore_Erokii.md)? I do not think we have an answer based on what little we know."

**"Oh most high of Artificers, I ask that you impart any knowledge you have (which I don't doubt is extensive) regarding the Sloads' presence in [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md). When was the first report of their appearance there? Could they still be lurking in the swamps to this day? Do the [Argonians](Lore_Argonian.md) have any particular relationship with the Sload?" – The Human Floyd**

Telenger the Artificer says, "The Sload? In Black Marsh? You surprise me, The Human Floyd—dare I ask what are your sources for this interesting claim? If true, certain advisors to [the Queen](Lore_Ayrenn.md) on security matters must be notified immediately!"

**"In my travels, I've heard about the [Pillar of Thras](Lore_Pillar_of_Thras.md). It is true that the Sload perform sacrifices here? If so, what is their motive? Also, is it true that some of the victims disappear before they touch the ground? What happens to them? On another note, how is [Sload Soap](Lore_Sload_Soap.md) made? I've heard rumors of an entire factory in [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md) dedicated to its production by crushing Sload larvae!" – Bertille Montrose, [Breton](Lore_Breton.md) bookseller and amateur scholar**

Telenger the Artificer says, "So many questions! You Bretons always seem so frenetic to us, trying to cram so much activity into your brief lives. I suppose it's understandable, however.

"Anyway, to your questions: Pillar of Thras? Are you referring to the fallen Coral Tower that sank at the time of the All-Flags Navy, or some new edifice? If it's a new erection, this 'Pillar' of yours may square with certain rumors I have heard that the Sload intend to rebuild their Tower, and indeed may already have commenced. The Thrassians command powerful [magics](Lore_Magic.md), of course: not just [necromancy](Lore_Necromancy.md) and portal spells, but the ability to command the coral they live among in a manner analogous to the [Wood Elves](Lore_Bosmer.md)' [communion](Lore_Green_Pact.md) with the plants of [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md). Could they induce the coral to grow rapidly out of the [Sea of Pearls](Lore_Sea_of_Pearls.md), spiraling skyward so as to create their tower anew? This bears further investigation. Perhaps the Sapiarch of Scrying….

"But enough speculation—on to a subject about which, for once, we can be certain: Sload Soap! There are many misconceptions about the origin of Sload Soap, and I am happy to have an opportunity to clear it up. First, let us consider the metamorphic biology of the Sload. They begin life on the Thrassian Atolls as, in the words of Admiral Bendu Olo, 'disgusting little amorphous grubs.' Ignored by their pendulous parents, these grubs somehow squirm their way to the sea, where they mutate into aquatic quasi-cephalopods known as 'polwygles.' Due to their corpulence, adult Sloads spend a great deal of time in the shallow lagoons of their atolls, wallowing among the polwygles. Those larvae that prove too slow to avoid their parents' pseudopods are caught and harvested, culling out the weak and providing the raw material for Sload Soap.

"Captured polwygles are tossed into an ever-bubbling cauldron where they gradually deliquesce into a slimy broth. This broth undergoes an alchemical commixture with materials known only to the Sload, after which it is poured into molds and allowed to cool. Once solid, the bars are scooped out and wrapped in the viscera of hagfish for preservation.

"It is believed that the Sload use this soap as a primary component in their necromantic rituals. I'm no expert on necromancy, but apparently having an emulsified reagent concocted from one's own descendants acts as profound intensifier in the magic of undeath. Sload Soap is rarely seen away from Thras, and when it is it commands high prices from alchemists, who prize its unique properties for creating potions of agility and, rarest of all, the mutation of personality. Alianora the Red, our Sapiarch of Alchemy, says that Sload Soap has never been thoroughly analyzed outside of Thras, and may contain many more undiscovered alchemical properties. Plus, it's an exceptional cleanser, deep-cleaning yet mild, that leaves your skin feeling youthful and refreshed."

**"First thing's *[[sic](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/UESPWiki:Spelling#Books_and_Direct_Quotes)]* first; I want my tome on the [Whet Fang](Lore_Vampire.md#Black_Marsh) back, Telenger. Second, several scholars suggest that the [Thrassian Plague](Lore_Thrassian_Plague.md) was supernatural in nature, the result of bargains with [Daedric Princes](Lore_Daedric_Princes.md) like [Namira](Lore_Namira.md) the Prince of Rot and [Peryite](Lore_Peryite.md) the Prince of Pestilence. Do you personally think there is any credence to these claims, old friend?" – Eis Vuur Warden, Wayward and Contract Scholar**

Telenger the Artificer says, "Eis Vuur! Of course, I'll collect that book as soon as I get back to my laboratory and have it sent to you by [Black Horse Courier](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Black_Horse_Courier). I'll just need to find another object the right size to, er, prop up my lillandrilic calcinator. (Ahem.)

"The Thrassian Plague, scourge of the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md), was known to the common people as the Slug Famine because the wriggling gastropods that carried the flesh-eating [disease](Lore_Diseases.md) infected not just people, but livestock and wild animals as well. It's easy to see why one might associate the Plague with Namira or Peryite, as the Spirit Daedra's sphere includes slime and slugs, while the Taskmaster's includes disease and contamination. It's well known that the Sload traffic with the Princes, so the involvement of Namira or Peryite is quite credible. However, there is also the Pestilent Progeny Thesis of that reprobate [Divayth Fyr](Lore_Divayth_Fyr.md), which postulates that the infectious slugs that invaded [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) were mutated versions of the Sloads' own infantile larvae. However, since the Plague was wiped out by [Syrabane](Lore_Syrabane.md), we have no extant samples to test to determine which of these hypotheses is correct. Indeed, these theories are by no means mutually exclusive, and it could be that the truth lies somewhere in between. Only the Sload know for sure. Perhaps, Eis Vuur, in your wayward and peripatetic travels, you could stop off at Thras and ask them!"