# Factions S

[Overview](Lore_Factions.md) | [A](Lore_Factions_A.md) [B](Lore_Factions_B.md) [C](Lore_Factions_C.md) [D](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_D) [E](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_E) [F](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_F) [G](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_G) [H](Lore_Factions_H.md) [I](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_I) [J](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_J) [K](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_K) [L](Lore_Factions_L.md) [M](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_M) [N](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_N) [O](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_O) [P](Lore_Factions_P.md) [Q](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_Q) [R](Lore_Factions_R.md) S [T](Lore_Factions_T.md) [U](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_U) [V](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_V) [W](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_W) [X](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_X) Y [Z](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_Z)
---

## Sagacians
[Sagacians](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Sagacians) were a group of unprincipled mages, scholars and researchers active in the [Summerset Isle](Lore_Summerset_Isle.md) during the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md) in the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). They considered the laws of Summerset to be too limiting and as an obstacle to their research. They abandoned all scruples and were researching topics that were considered dangerous by the standards of the Summerset laws.

As of the [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582) they inhabited the ruins of [Tor-Hame-Khard](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Tor-Hame-Khard), and were considered "truly no better than bandits" by the representatives of the [Divine Prosecution](Lore_Divine_Prosecution.md).

## Salt-Cured
The [Salt-Cured](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Salt-Cured) were a sub-tribe of [Argonians](Lore_Argonian.md) that lived on the island of [Solstice](Lore_Solstice_(island).md), considered part of the greater [Tide-Born tribe](Lore_Tide-Born.md).

They were known as a group composed mostly of fishermen who spent much of their lives on the water in large twin-hulled canoes, with living platforms spanning the space between the hulls. They generally remained near the reefs in a loose flotilla, but traveled into deeper waters of the [Southern Sea](Lore_Southern_Sea.md) when following the [fish](Lore_Fish.md). The Salt-Cured were also known to use smaller boats to journey back to the island to trade goods with other sub-tribes and at the village of Shell-Tide.

## Sap-Speakers
[Sap-Speakers](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Sap-Speaker) are [Argonians](Lore_Argonians.md) that act as the direct intermediaries of the [Hist](Lore_Hist.md). Their specific role and methods of communion with the Hist can vary greatly from tribe to tribe: some tribes practice unique forms of interaction, while others do not engage in communion at all. Sap-speakers were revered for their wisdom, and are key figures among their tribes alongside the likes of village elders and tree-minders.

## Saraathu Tong
The [Saraathu Tong](Lore_Saraathu_Tong.md) was a syndicate of outcast mages who controlled a significant portion of trade in [Fargrave](Lore_Fargrave.md). They were scholars of primarily, but not only, [Dunmeri](Lore_Dunmer.md) origins that were cast out of Morrowind for offending the Tribunal. The Tong swore allegiance to [House Hlaalu](Lore_House_Hlaalu.md). They used their expertise with portal magic to supply House Hlaalu with trade goods from across the planes. The organization had a pact with the fearsome being known as Quath that allowed them to study magics and portals within Fargrave.

Saraathu Tong's headquarters were located in the city of Fargrave. Their official stalls were placed in the Bazaar. The organization offered guidance, advice, and employment for the mortal inhabitants of the city. They also provided interplanar teleportation services for those not affiliated with House Hlaalu, but the particulars of transliminal transit were a tightly guarded secret within the organization. Inner workings of many other spells utilized by the organization were kept secret from non-members.

## Sarethi
The [Sarethi](Lore_Sarethi.md) family is a clan of [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) from the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). They are a noble family associated with [House Redoran](Lore_House_Redoran.md) as both Councilor [Athyn Sarethi](Lore_Athyn_Sarethi.md), the so-called Hope of the Redoran, and his father served as councilors in the Redoran Council. The **Sarethi Ancestral Tomb** is located at the end of a small peninsula on the largest island of [Sheogorad](Lore_Sheogorad.md), northwest of [Dagon Fel](Lore_Dagon_Fel.md) in northernmost [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md). **Sarethi Farm** is a family-owned property located in southeast [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), east of [Lake Geir](Lore_Lake_Geir.md).

## Sarmathi
The **Sarmathi** were a tribe of [Aldmer](Lore_Aldmer.md) active during the [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md), and are reflected on as having had interesting cultural principles.<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-ADIF-1)</sup>

## Satakals
The [Satakals](Lore_Satakals.md) or **Sataks** are a [Redguard](Lore_Redguard.md) cult of devotees to [Satakal the Serpent God](Lore_Satakal.md). While they have resided in the cities of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), most notably [Rihad](Lore_Rihad.md), many live among the largely traditionalist nomads of the [Alik'r](Lore_Alik%27r.md). These Devotees of Satakal have been seen rolling in the desert sand sidewinder-fashion in continuous, hundred-mile stretches, from [Balhar](Lore_Balhar.md) all the way to the [Nohotogrha oasis](Lore_Nohotogrha.md).<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_nb1)</sup> The [Maormer](Lore_Maormer.md) ruler King [Orgnum](Lore_Orgnum.md) was a deathless wizard rumored to actually *be* the Serpent God of the Satakal. Traditional Redguards not of the cult view Orgnum's connection to Satakal as blasphemous, and maintain that Orgnum will not be spared at the coming of the true Satakal.

Many of the Satakals, such as those that inhabit Rihad, like to go naked in the streets, slithering in the dirt, and nipping at passersbys like [snakes](Lore_Snake.md). They even perform exhibitions of "shedding their skin". As of the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), modern devotees of Satakal were said to shed their skin in gruesome rituals with winding daggers, with a possibility of self-consumption (though this has never been confirmed). Flensing rituals of Satakal were suggested to be more restrained in earlier eras. It is said the Satakals had hidden and well-guarded skin-archives detailing various traditional legends and myths from [Yokuda](Lore_Yokuda.md). One such legend tells the tale of [Tall Papa](Lore_Tall_Papa.md)'s War with the [Prince](Lore_Daedric_Prince.md) [Boethiah](Lore_Boethiah.md), and how the conflict was settled when [Hunding](Lore_Frandar_Hunding.md) defeated Boethiah's son in a game of limb-riddles.

According to a pamphlet published by the [Third Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md), the Satakals have historically caused the A'likr border-states no end of strife. These "revered madmen" are said to have sometimes formed perilous bands, terrorizing the countryside in "old [Ra Gada](Lore_Ra_Gada.md) fashion." Despite this they are said to depend entirely on the charity of the other Redguards. When the Third Empire first controlled [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), the Satakals proved resistant to transitioning to worship of the [Eight Divines](Lore_Eight_Divines.md). The Satakals began biting Imperial civil servants, forcing the Provisional Governors to run them out of the cities, protecting both locals and the [Imperial garrisons](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md).

## Seamount Clan
The [Seamount Clan](Lore_Seamount_Clan.md) (or **Khazun Ghash**) was a clan of [Orcs](Lore_Orc.md) active in the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md) that lived in the island that they called [Betnikh](Lore_Betony.md), a location more commonly known as Betony. Their main city, Stonetooth Fortress, had a lodge, bank, market, and other facilities. They were a proud and self-reliant people who fiercely defended their home from invasions.

## Sect of Harmonious Masters
The [Sect of Harmonious Masters](Lore_Sect_of_Harmonious_Masters.md) was a religious order devoted to the worship of [Stendarr](Lore_Stendarr.md) and mastering [Restoration Magic](Lore_Restoration.md). Its members dedicated themselves to adapting the magic of Stendarr's Light into spells, rituals, and ceremonies of cleansing and healing that can be employed by all of the mortal races. The sect originated from [Altmeri](Lore_Altmer.md) city of [Lillandril](Lore_Lillandril.md), as a group of Altmer who rejected the common Altmeri disinterest with Stendarr, the Apologist of Man, and embraced his mercy. Despite its Altmeri roots Harmonious Masters are open for all races, not even excepting the [Beastfolk](Lore_Beastfolk.md). They believed that as Stendarr, in his boundless mercy, has given all mortals the potential ability to employ his magical gifts, they should feel honor-bound to provide knowledge of these spells to all the peoples of Nirn freely and without hindrance. Their cause was to improve the general welfare of all folk in every culture. They eschewed all forms of violence and turned Stendarr's glowing gift into a tool for healing. They were known to spread their knowledge freely to everyone, even to the militant adherents. One of the known members of the Harmonious Masters was the author [Aritanwe of Lillandril](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Aritanwe_of_Lillandril).

## Seran
The [Seran](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Seran) clan is an ancient family of [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) that lives in the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). They are one of the thirty revered families of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md), and are a sub-faction of [House Redoran](Lore_House_Redoran.md). The **Seran Ancestral Tomb** is located in the [West Gash](Lore_West_Gash.md) region, in close proximity to [Khuul](Lore_Khuul.md).

## The Scaled Court
The [Scaled Court](Lore_Scaled_Court.md) was a group of fanatics active in [Craglorn](Lore_Craglorn.md) and Western [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) during the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md). They follow the teachings of the [Celestial](Lore_Celestial.md) body [The Serpent](Lore_The_Serpent.md).

The were initially led by the [Nord](Lore_Nord.md) warlord, Milvern One-Sword, and emerged at the mysterious disappearance of the Celestial Guardians in the night sky in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582). They were driven from Cyrodiil by the [Imperial Legion](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md), but they were still active in Craglorn.

They were disbanded after being defeated by [the Vestige](Lore_The_Vestige.md).

## Scenarist Guild
The [Scenarist Guild](Lore_Scenarist_Guild.md)<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_nb1)</sup> is a centuries-old guild of the [Empire](Lore_Empire.md) with a presence across all of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). The Scenarists are Tamriel's troubadours, bards, and minstrels whose notes and observations have been compiled into a thousand impressive volumes over hundreds of years. A neutral guild member not associated with any geographic entity acts as an observer, keeping others' accounts honest and free from inborn or regional bias.

Their principal facility is the Scenarist Guild citadel nestled in the [Dragontail Mountains](Lore_Dragontail_Mountains.md), which was surrounded by a magical barrier to prevent trespassers.

## School of Julianos
The [School of Julianos](Lore_School_of_Julianos.md) is the temple dedicated to [Julianos](Lore_Julianos.md), the God of Wisdom and Logic. These are generally the place of worship for him, as well as institutes of the highest regard. The school is known for its veneration of the scholarly pursuits and pushing its disciples to their limits. They have a rather strict recruitment policy and show a lack of sympathy to those that cannot keep up with their teachings, or cheat their way through the path. The cult of [Clavicus Vile](Lore_Clavicus_Vile.md) are considered their allies while the [Mages Guild](Lore_Mages_Guild.md) are seen as their enemies. In the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md), the School of Julianos has many chapters, some of which include [Abibon-Gora](Lore_Abibon-Gora.md) and [Satakalaam](Lore_Satakalaam_(county).md) in [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), and [Daenia](Lore_Daenia_(duchy).md) and [Tulune](Lore_Tulune.md) in [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md).

## Scribes Guild
The [Scribes Guild](Lore_Scribes_Guild.md) is an officially sanctioned guild. As their name implies, they employ scribes from across the [Empire](Lore_Empire.md).

During the [Akaviri Potentate](Lore_Akaviri_Potentate.md) in [2E 321](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_321), [Versidue-Shaie](Lore_Versidue-Shaie.md) gave his approval for the [Guild Act](Lore_Guild_Act.md), which sanctioned businesses such as the Scribes Guild. They were hence protected by the Empire of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), even into the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), but would be required to pay them if they wanted to expand their influence. The Empire had subsequently strengthened since the Guild Act was passed.

## Second Legion
The [Second Legion](Lore_Second_Legion.md) is one of the many legions that make up the [Imperial Legion](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md), the militant arm of the [Empire](Lore_Empire.md). The Second Legion has a storied history from the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md), especially when they served [Varen Aquilarios](Lore_Varen_Aquilarios.md) in his [open rebellion](Lore_Varen%27s_Rebellion.md) against Emperor [Leovic](Lore_Leovic.md). The Imperial War [Mastiff](Lore_Dog.md#Mastiff) is the mascot and symbol of the Second Legion.

## Selenu
The [Selenu](Lore_Selenu.md) are a [vampire](Lore_Vampire.md) bloodline found in the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md) region.

## Shad Astula
[Shad Astula Academy](Lore_Shad_Astula.md) was a school of [magic](Lore_Magic.md) in [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md), located near the city of [Mournhold](Lore_Mournhold.md). Initially founded by and for the [Great Houses](Lore_Great_Houses.md) and blessed by the [Tribunal](Lore_Tribunal.md), during the [Three Banners War](Lore_Three_Banners_War.md), the academy opened enrolment up to train the wider [Ebonheart Pact](Lore_Ebonheart_Pact.md). Although focused primarily on the arcane arts, its students were also educated in writing, leadership, and military strategy in preparation for assuming leadership roles in the Pact and Great Houses. The entrance requirements and curriculum were infamously rigorous, but resulted in high-quality graduates produced in half the time of a traditional [Mages Guild](Lore_Mages_Guild.md) education.

The academy was built on the foundations of much older buildings, and some of the underhalls, such as the library vaults, were still in use during the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). Students were ferried between Mournhold and the school by a [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) [ghost](Lore_Ghost.md) who owed the academy a substantial debt and was consequently bound to serve as a boatswain.

Students at Shad Astula learned from master mages in a highly permissive and experimental environment, designed to weed out the weak and rapidly enhance the skills of the strong. The curriculum divided the magical arts into schools, such as [Restoration](Lore_Restoration.md) and [Illusion](Lore_Illusion.md), which was a novel approach at the time that would quickly be adopted by the Mages Guild. Students who graduated from the academy were given a pin, with those who completed their master exams being gifted a timepiece by the Arch-Mage. Student use of [skooma](Lore_Skooma.md) and strong alcoholic beverages were banned, with instructors suggesting students limit themselves to [mazte and flin](Lore_Alcoholic_Beverages.md) if they wished to decompress. The alcohol ban did not extend to teaching staff.

In [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), Shad Astula was under the leadership of Arch-Mage Valeyn when it was attacked by the Maulborn during an attempted takeover led by General Darvasen, Valeyn's disgruntled former assistant who was expelled for experimenting on students. [The Vestige](Lore_The_Vestige.md) was able to stop the Maulborn and free students enslaved by the ancient [Chimeri](Lore_Chimer.md) relic known as the [Jagged Lens of Compulsion](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Jagged_Lens_of_Compulsion).

## Shadefeather Clan
The [Shadefeather Clan](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Shadefeather_Clan) was a prominent [clan](Lore_Reachman_Clans.md) of [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md) that lived in [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md), a region in western [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) during the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md) in [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). They were not numerous, but a notorious nomadic clan, known for their violence to both Reachfolk and outsiders alike. The clan was under the sway of a strong coven of [Hagravens](Lore_Hagraven.md). They were known to waylay travelers throughout the Reach and murdering their captives in dark rituals. Other Reachfolk clans were often targets of their attacks. They frequently shifted camps and killed anyone unfortunate enough to stumble across them. In [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582) their camp was located to the northwest of [Hroldan Ring](Lore_Hroldan_Ring.md).

The Reachfolk of the Shadefeather Clan dedicated themselves to the two of the [Great Spirits of the Reach](Lore_Daedric_Prince.md), [Nocturnal](Lore_Nocturnal.md) and [Namira](Lore_Namira.md). They erected shrines to both of the spirits. The shrine dedicated to Nocturnal was known as the Shadefeather Ritual Stone and was located in the center of the camp. The shrine to Namira was placed in a less central spot, at the camp's eastern entrance.

## Shadowed Path
The [Shadowed Path](Lore_Shadowed_Path.md) was a cult of [necromancers](Lore_Necromancy.md) devoted to [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md). They established themselves in [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582) following the collapse of civil order brought about by the [Alliance War](Lore_Alliance_War.md), although they were seemingly in existence before the war.

The cult was led by Dreadlord Naucratius, and was divided into several distinct Circles controlled by ranking Diabolists. Three such Circles were sent to southern Cyrodiil in search of an ancient relic buried beneath the ground. The cult occupied [Haynote Cave](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Haynote_Cave), [Nisin Cave](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Nisin_Cave) and [Pothole Caverns](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Pothole_Caverns) in search of this artifact, which the Shadowed Path planned to use to conquer the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md) and all of Cyrodiil in the name of Molag Bal. Following the falling of a [Dark Anchor](Lore_Dark_Anchor.md) above [Bruma](Lore_Bruma.md), the Shadowed Path took command of the [Daedric](Lore_Daedra.md) invasion forces and overran the city. The cult also occupied the ruins of [Nagastani](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Nagastani) in preparation for taking [Blue Road Keep](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Blue_Road_Keep).

The cult attempted to create a [lich](Lore_Lich.md) at [Lindai](Lore_Lindai.md) to lead them, but it was destroyed on behalf of the priests of [Weynon Priory](Lore_Weynon_Priory.md). Many of the cult's existing leaders were also killed by adventurers, and the [Fighters Guild](Lore_Fighters_Guild.md) began offering bounties to hunt down cult members after their contract with [Meridia](Lore_Meridia.md) was concluded.

Specific details of the Shadowed Path's relations with [Mannimarco](Lore_Mannimarco.md) and the [Order of the Black Worm](Lore_Order_of_the_Black_Worm.md) are unknown, although the Order had supplanted the [Mages Guild](Lore_Mages_Guild.md) in Cyrodiil at the time and had Imperial approval. Similar cults, such as the Withered Hand and Stonefire Cult, cropped up all across [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) with the support of the Empire and the Worm Cult. Following the failure of the Planemeld and Mannimarco's fall from grace, the fate of the Shadowed Path is unknown.

## Shadowbloom Clan
[Shadowbloom Clan](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Shadowbloom_Clan) was one of numerous [clans](Lore_Reachman_Clans.md) of [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md) that lived in [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md) during the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). They inhabited [Markarth](Lore_Markarth.md) and were known to have [werewolves](Lore_Lycanthropy.md) among its ranks. Unlike most Reachfolk clans who considered lycanthropy as a transaction with [Hircine](Lore_Hircine.md), the Shadowbloom Clan members considered it as a blessing. They considered the sounds of Markarth unnatural and preferred the wilds, where all the sounds flew at random.

## Shadowscales
The [Shadowscales](Lore_Shadowscales.md) are an order of [Argonian](Lore_Argonian.md) assassins originating in [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md). Argonians born under the sign of [the Shadow](Lore_The_Shadow.md) are taken at birth and offered to the [Dark Brotherhood](Lore_Dark_Brotherhood.md) where they are trained in the arts of stealth and assassination. Shadowscales can identify other members of the order by special medallions. They are typically made of brass and inscribed with the likeness of Sithis, the Dread Father. Any Shadowscale who lives to come of age is accepted into the Dark Brotherhood as a full member of the family. They may also leave the Brotherhood to serve the Argonian people in Black Marsh as ku-vastei, the agents of needed change and arbiters. They act with impunity there, and some are said to serve as personal assassins to the King of Black Marsh and as protectors of the ancient members of the royalty. However, no such king is thought to have ruled since the height of Argonian civilization in ages past—if at all—and the monarch's role as commander of the Shadowscales is said to be overstated.

Shadowscales follow the same [five tenets](Lore_The_Five_Tenets.md) traditionally followed by members of the Brotherhood, although they have a distinct set of rules. For example, a Shadowscale cannot kill a fellow Shadowscale even if they are not members of the Brotherhood. However, breaking a tenet of the Brotherhood invokes the [Wrath of Sithis](Lore_Wrath_of_Sithis.md), and forgiveness is possible if the family member survives the encounter. If a Shadowscale breaks a tenet, it is viewed as treason and the perpetrator will be put to death. This is usually carried out by the [Argonian Royal Court](Lore_Kingdom_of_Black_Marsh.md), who will send an unaffiliated assassin to carry out the execution. During contracts, Shadowscales seek to kill their targets swiftly. Prolonged and torturous kills are generally frowned upon.

Among common Argonians, especially the Black-Tongues, the Shadowscales are deeply respected. While all tribes of the [Murkmire](Lore_Murkmire.md) participate in the Shadowscale tradition, the Black-Tongue tribe take it the most seriously and spend a large amount of effort towards producing Shadowscales.

Some Shadowscales were opposed to the formation of the [Ebonheart Pact](Lore_Ebonheart_Pact.md) in the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), with some even turning traitor and fleeing Black Marsh. However, some Shadowscales fought on the Pact's side during the [Aldmeri Dominion](Lore_Aldmeri_Dominion.md) invasion of [Shadowfen](Lore_Shadowfen.md) in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582) by liberating the town of Murkwater.

With the closure of the training facility in [Archon](Lore_Archon.md), and the death of the [last known living Shadowscale](Lore_Veezara.md) in [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201), it is possible that the Shadowscales have become extinct.

## Shardai Clan
[Shardai Clan](Lore_Shardai_Clan.md) (also known as **Faydra's Clan**) is a [Daedric](Lore_Daedra.md) clan led by [Faydra Shardai](Lore_Faydra_Shardai.md). It is in the service of [Clan Dagon](Lore_Clan_Dagon.md), led by [Mehrunes Dagon](Lore_Mehrunes_Dagon.md). The clan is based in the [Havoc Wellhead](Lore_Havoc_Wellhead.md). It represents the vital, but impulsive and undisciplined element of the destructive principle.

Clan Shardai exiled a Dremora by the name of Xyria, who fell in love with an [Argonian](Lore_Argonian.md) summoner named Xocin during the [Second Akaviri Invasion](Lore_Second_Akaviri_Invasion.md). After reforming, members of the clan sought to hunt Xyria for her forbidden affections, leading to Xocin to attempt to summon his lover back to Nirn, though their fates remain ambigious.

Along with [Xivilai's Clan](Lore_Xivilai%27s_Clan.md) and [Dremora Clan](Lore_Dremora_Clan.md), the Shardai Clan aided Dagon in his invasion of the [Battlespire](Lore_Battlespire.md) during the [Imperial Simulacrum](Lore_Imperial_Simulacrum.md). At this time, the [Clannfear](Lore_Clannfear.md) and the [Flame Daedra](Lore_Fire_Daedra.md) were retainers of Shardai Clan. On Faydra's orders, the Fire Daedra helped to invade the [Shade Perilous](Lore_Shade_Perilous.md) along with their hated enemies, the [Frost Daedra](Lore_Frost_Daedra.md). To prevent infighting, Faydra made a pact with [Xivilai Moath](Lore_Xivilai_Moath.md), forcing them to work together. This relationship did not hold, as an [apprentice](Lore_Hero.md) from the Battlespire, following the retreating Daedric armies, brought the [Elemental Daedra](Lore_Elemental_Daedra.md) into conflict over control of the realm. The unnecessary invasion of the Shade Perilous and the increasing rivalry between Faydra and Xivilai displeased Dagon. [Imago Storm](Lore_Imago_Storm.md) of Dremora Clan made a deal with the Battlespire apprentice in an attempt to restore order to Clan Dagon. Faydra, however, could not be swayed, and was banished back to Oblivion by the apprentice through the utterance of her [incantory neonymic](Lore_Nymic.md). Meanwhile, Xivilai Moath was tricked into aiding the apprentice and brought his clan into open conflict with Shardai Clan. Following Dagon's banishment, Imago Storm assumed control and restored order to the clans.

## Shardborn
The [Shardborn](Lore_Shardborn.md) are a clan of [Dremora](Lore_Dremora.md) in service to [Ithelia](Lore_Ithelia.md), the [Prince](Lore_Daedric_Princes.md) of Paths. In battle they don armor of fractured glass, molded with [creatia](Lore_Chaotic_Creatia.md) by the clan's master [glass-smiths](Lore_Smithing.md). The Shardborn are native to the realm of [Mirrormoor](Lore_Mirrormoor.md), a plane of [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md) that was shattered and forgotten in the [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md) when [Hermaeus Mora](Lore_Hermaeus_Mora.md) imprisoned Ithelia and wiped all memory of her from existence.

The Shardborn re-emerged from obscurity in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582) when [Torvesard](Lore_Torvesard.md) succeeded in restoring his memory of Ithelia and her realm of Mirrormoor. This knowledge allowed him to awaken the servants of Ithelia, with the Shardborn counted among them. The Shardborn invaded the Mythos of [Apocrypha](Lore_Apocrypha.md) in response to his call. They subsequently aided the champions of Mirrormoor in invading [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md), summoned from Oblivion by ancient Mirrormoor mosaics dotted throughout the [West Weald](Lore_West_Weald.md). They were led by scions of Ithelia such as Torvesard and Shardmarshal Vargas, who were imbued with a desire to restore the memory of their forgotten Prince.

Following Torvesard's defeat by [the Vestige](Lore_The_Vestige.md), his [essence](Lore_Vestige_(soul).md) was consigned to nothingness by Ithelia, destroying him and thereby releasing him from service. Ithelia was subsequently banished to the [Many Paths](Lore_Many_Paths.md), allowing Hermaeus Mora to once again wipe all memory of her existence. Torvesard and the Shardborn were remembered only as rogue Dremora.

## Shatter-Shield Clan
The [Shatter-Shield Clan](Lore_Shatter-Shield_Clan.md) is an ancient noble family of [Nords](Lore_Nord.md) from the city of [Windhelm](Lore_Windhelm.md), with an expansive history from the city's shipping industry and relieved of work after living from generations of "old money." While they spearhead the operation, all the hard work and paperwork is done by their workers down at the harbor office and the Argonian Assemblage, the latter of which has been held in great regard by their higher-ups. The sigil of Clan Shatter-Shield is an enchanted iron warhammer called Aegisbane.

## Shatul Clan
The [Shatul Clan](Lore_Shatul_Clan.md) is an [Orc](Lore_Orc.md) organization that lives in the stronghold of Shatul Range located in the highlands of [Wrothgar](Lore_Wrothgar.md) in [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md). The Clan is famous for their hunters and were one of the many Orcish organizations that were active during the period of the rise to prominence of [King Kurog](Lore_Kurog_gro-Orsinium.md)'s [Orsinium](Lore_Orsinium.md) during the middle of the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). They were considered one of the best Orc clans in terms of food production and livestock and every single one of them were considered to be expert hunters and farmers according to Kurog himself.

## Shields of Senchal
The [Shields of Senchal](Lore_Shields_of_Senchal.md) were a group of [Imperials](Lore_Imperial.md) that composed the military forces of the city of [Senchal](Lore_Senchal.md) in [Southern Elsweyr](Lore_Southern_Elsweyr.md), with them being seen as the protectors of the city as their value was appreciated by the people, with the Legion receiving their name from the city council itself at some point. Problems that plagued Senchal were many, but the Shields and their actions managed to help diminish the amount of criminal activity, allow for the rebuilding of the location and they even formed a governing council to better administrate the city and eventually even had to help deal with the new threat in the form of the [Dragons](Lore_Dragon.md) that began to plague [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md).

## The Shouts
[The Shouts](Lore_The_Shouts.md) were a [Chimeri](Lore_Chimer.md) guild of counselors and advisors to [Almalexia](Lore_Almalexia.md) and the realm during the times of [Nerevar](Lore_Nerevar.md).

They operated within the capital of the Chimer, [Mournhold](Lore_Mournhold.md), and carried the wishes of the people, as the Velothi were predominantly virtuous at that time. Their interactions occasionally led to disputes, requiring [Sotha Sil](Lore_Sotha_Sil.md)'s intervention and guidance to make them effective.

They are featured in the *[36 Lessons of Vivec, Sermon 8](Lore_36_Lessons_of_Vivec,_Sermon_8.md)*, where they observe a dialogue between [Vivec](Lore_Vivec.md), Sotha Sil, and Almalexia, "to which the Shouts were silent in sudden reading." As of the time when Sermon 8 was written, they were already regarded as ancient and forgotten.

## Shrine of the Hunt-Father
The [Shrine of the Hunt-Father](Lore_Shrine_of_the_Hunt-Father.md) was a [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md) temple based in [Markarth](Lore_Markarth.md). It was dedicated to five aspects of one of the [Great Spirits](Lore_Daedric_Prince.md) of [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md), [Hircine](Lore_Hircine.md). The shrine was active during the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md) in [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md).

## Shunned Ones
The [Shunned Ones](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Shunned_Ones) were a [clan](Lore_Reachman_Clans.md) of [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md) that lived in [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md) during the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). They were composed of outcasts from other Reachmen clans.

As a clan composed entirely of the outcasts, Shunned Ones were not regarded highly. Typically clanless Reachfolk often faced discrimination. The lives of the exiled Reachmen were often seen as worthless. The Reach was dangerous for those without clans and career options for clanless Reachfolk in [Markarth](Lore_Markarth.md) were limited, though certain factions such as [Wayward Guardians](Lore_Wayward_Guardians.md) rejected that prejudice.

The Shunned Ones were not welcomed warmly in the City of Stone. In [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), the [Gray Host](Lore_Gray_Host.md) descended onto the Reach to search for an ancient artifact of great power and many of the Reachfolk clans were welcomed to stay in [Markarth](Lore_Markarth.md) at the behest of Ard [Caddach](Lore_Caddach.md). The Ard, however, was reluctant to let the Shunned Ones enter. They sent a representative, a [Redguard](Lore_Redguard.md) known as Achdazan, who they once helped in the time of need to negotiate the deal. It is unknown if they were allowed to settle in the city, but the threat of the Gray Host, eventually ended.

Shunned ones believed that when survival is at stake one's character is shaped. When one makes deadly mistakes, one either sits with them to learn or ignores them to warp one's character. They saw great value in good tales and stories. Their preferred currency was tales told of mistakes and lessons.

## Sildreth
[Sildreth](Lore_Sildreth.md) family is an ancient [Dunmeri](Lore_Dunmer.md) lineage that lived in the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). They were affiliated with the [Great House](Lore_Great_Houses.md) [Telvanni](Lore_Telvanni.md). They had ties to [Suran](Lore_Suran.md), and some family members were also known to inhabit the settlement.

## Silken Ring
The [Silken Ring](Lore_Silken_Ring.md) was a group of assassins comprised of deserters from the [Dark Brotherhood](Lore_Dark_Brotherhood.md), the [Morag Tong](Lore_Morag_Tong.md) and the [Shadowscales](Lore_Shadowscales.md). The organization was founded by an ex-Morag Tong operative and lead by a figure known as the Lady of Lace. The Silken Ring murdered their former associates from rival assassin groups, killed other guilds' informants and stole contracts from their rivals to please [Mephala](Lore_Mephala.md).

## Silver Crescents
The [Silver Crescents](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Silver_Crescents) are a prominent guild in [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md) that were active a number of years prior to [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201). Their line of work is dangerous, but provides a great deal of money. They have contacts with the [Thieves Guild](Lore_Thieves_Guild.md) in [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). A [Bosmer](Lore_Bosmer.md) thief named Niruin was a member of the Crescents for a number of years, before being forced to leave by his father under the threat of being put in jail for his involvement with them.

## Silver Dawn
The [Order of the Silver Dawn](Lore_Silver_Dawn.md) (or simply the **Silver Dawn**) is a militant group of [werewolf](Lore_Werewolf.md) hunters that were active in the mid- [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). They were primarily active in the midst of the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md), starting their venture in [2E 428](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_428) and operated across [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) in various strongholds and castles. Their main headquarters was the [Argent Mine](Lore_Argent_Mine.md), found in the highlands of [Wrothgar](Lore_Wrothgar.md). The faction saw a great decline by [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582) as some of their great compounds were conquered by various werewolf clans.

## Silver Hand
The [Silver Hand](Lore_Silver_Hand.md) were a group of [werewolf](Lore_Lycanthropy.md) hunters in [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) circa [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201). They were enemies of the [Companions](Lore_Companions.md), as they were aware that the mercenary group's elite [inner circle](Lore_The_Circle.md) were lycanthropes. Hunters affiliated with the Silver Hand were known to brandish [silver](Lore_Silver.md) swords and sought to rid Skyrim of werewolves. However, while the Silver Hand solely hunted werewolves and members of the Companions, it was evident that the group was overzealous at best, and at worst was no better than a group of bandits, murdering unarmed civilians and torturing their captives, even those not suffering from lycanthropy. To spite the Companions, the Silver Hand also attempted to retrieve scattered pieces of [Wuuthrad](Lore_Wuuthrad.md), the shattered axe of [Ysgramor](Lore_Ysgramor.md) which was of great importance to them.

## Silverhoof Horsemen
The [Silverhoof Horsemen](Lore_Silverhoof_Horsemen.md) (also known as the **Horse-Folk of Silverhoof**, or simply **Horsemen**) are a tribe of [Redguards](Lore_Redguard.md) abiding in the pastoral basin known as the [Vale of Silverhoof](Lore_Silverhoof_Vale.md). Described as horse nomads, the Horsemen take care of horse herds as their livelihood, and also train steeds for others in exchange for goods. The Horsemen venerate a divine animist spirit they call the Herd Mother.

## Sinderill
The [Sinderill](Lore_Sinderill.md) was an intelligence guild composed of members of [Clan Direnni](Lore_Clan_Direnni.md), based in the isle of [Balfiera](Lore_Balfiera.md). The organization, led by a guild master, was active during the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md) and admitted both spies and scholars into its ranks.

The branch of the guild responsible for spying had its intelligence network active in many places in the [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). The Direnni were aware of multiple affairs that were happening around the world during the [Three Banners War](Lore_Three_Banners_War.md). They had extensive knowledge regarding the three factions participating in the war. They were also aware of the return of the [Dragons](Lore_Dragon.md) in [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md), the danger looming over the island of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md) and its god-king [Vivec](Lore_Vivec.md), the threat to the [Crystal Tower](Lore_Crystal_Tower.md) in [Summerset](Lore_Summerset_Isle.md), the [vampiric](Lore_Vampire.md) invasion of the [Gray Host](Lore_Gray_Host.md) on the [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) kingdom of Western Skyrim, the [daedric](Lore_Daedra.md) threat to the [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) region of [Blackwood](Lore_Blackwood.md), and anti-monarchist plots of [Ascendant Order](Lore_Ascendant_Order.md) in the [Systres Archipelago](Lore_Systres_Archipelago.md).

The branch of the guild responsible for the scholarly endeavors was studying the Keywright Gallery. It was an ancient site located on the Isle of Balfiera and its central chamber contained arcane helix and numerous inactive gates that were connected to multiple different locations in Tamriel. The Sinderill wanted to study the chamber with the portals thoroughly. Despite their efforts, they were not able to uncover all of the secrets of this complex, which predated their arrival on the island.

## Six-Ford Clan
The [Six-Ford Clan](Lore_Six-Ford_Clan.md) is one of the strongest and the most prominent [clan](Lore_Reachman_Clans.md) of [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md) that lives in [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md), a region in western [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). For ages, the Eagleseers have been enemies of the [Eagleseer Clan](Lore_Eagleseer_Clan.md) and vice versa, and it dates back to their foundation in years long past.

## Sixth Legion
The [Sixth Legion](Lore_Sixth_Legion.md) is one of the many legions that make up the [Imperial Legion](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md), the militant arm of the [Empire](Lore_Empire.md). The Sixth Legion was operational during the [Three Banners War](Lore_Three_Banners_War.md) of the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md), though little is known of their activities. It was known that its rules pertaining to capture and imprisonment were short and concise.

One of the members of the legion, a solitary stranded soldier, Antonia Gratas was found in the region of [Craglorn](Lore_Craglorn.md) in northern [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md) circa [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582). In adherence to the Legion's protocol, she had to sell excess equipment belonging to the Sixth Legion in order to secure a safe passage back to her unit in [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md).

## Skaal
The [Skaal](Lore_Skaal.md) are an offshoot tribe of [Nords](Lore_Nord.md) living in a [village](Lore_Skaal_Village.md) in northeastern [Solstheim](Lore_Solstheim.md). They are known as a trusting and hospitable people, welcoming strangers into their village without any suspicion. Their village is located to the east of the [Isild River](Lore_Isild_River.md), along the [Felsaad Coast](Lore_Felsaad_Coast.md) just north of [Lake Fjalding](Lore_Lake_Fjalding.md). The Skaal believe Solstheim was originally part of Skyrim, which was turned into an artificial island during a climactic battle between [Dragon Cult](Lore_Dragon_Cult.md) loyalists and rebels, with the Skaal being descended from the loyalist faction. Multiple Dragon Cult ruins were uncovered during the Fourth Era, which included carvings that corroborated the oral history preserved by the Skaal. The scholar [Tharstan](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Skyrim:Tharstan) came to the conclusion that the legend described in the *Guardian and the Traitor* was likely true with the additional archaeological evidence supporting it, and the Skaal formed a distinct culture overtime thanks to the isolation gained from the conflict.

The Skaal are self-sufficient, with the land providing all they require. As such, they rarely accept coin in trade from travelers.

## Skeffington Coven
The [Skeffington Coven](Lore_Skeffington_Coven.md) is a notable group of [witches](Lore_Witches.md) that live in the Barony of [Phrygias](Lore_Phrygias.md), within the province of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md). The Skeffington Coven has been active as far as the late [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md), all the way into [3E 417](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_417). The Skeffington operates at **Old Barbyn's Farm**, deep in the wilderness of Phrygias, somewhere near the [Wrothgarian Mountains](Lore_Wrothgarian_Mountains.md).

## Skyweaver Clan
[Skyweaver Clan](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Skyweaver_Clan) was one of numerous [clans](Lore_Reachman_Clans.md) of [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md) that lived in the city of [Markarth](Lore_Markarth.md) in [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md) during the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md).

Skyweaver Clan was one of the more open-minded clans and was known to have non-Reachfolk members in its ranks. One of such member was J'ghanor, a [Khajiit](Lore_Khajiit.md) dancer from [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md) who was escaping the threat caused by [Dragons](Lore_Dragon.md). They were known for their weatherworking skills, hence the clan's name of Skyweaver.

Another ability they were known for was their dancing. Although Reachfolk are known to dance often and are perceived as great dancers by the outsiders in general, the Skyweavers valued this ability very highly, to the point they were willing to accept skilled dancers into their ranks. One of their dances was known to involve a lot of fire.

## Sodality of the Eye
The Sodality of the Eye is a small group devoted to [Hermaeus Mora](Lore_Hermaeus_Mora.md). Circa [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md), they were directed to guard a vault until the arrival of [the Vestige](Lore_The_Vestige.md).<sup>[[2]](#cite_note-Dralys Dia-2)</sup>

## Society of Concerned Merchants
A mercantile co-operative which regulated trading prices in the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md)'s [Market District](Lore_Market_District_(Imperial_City).md) in the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md).

## Society of the Steadfast
The [Society of the Steadfast](Lore_Society_of_the_Steadfast.md) (or rarely **Steadfast Society** or **The Steadfast**) are a philanthropic fellowship that provides humanitarian aid to people who have suffered in disasters and wars, such as the [Three Banners War](Lore_Three_Banners_War.md). Founded by [Lord Bacaro Volorus](Lore_Bacaro_Volorus.md), the society consists of healers, caregivers, and a small contingent of knights that send teams loaded with supplies from one location to the next as the need arises. The Society establishes healing pavilions for the wounded, distributes food and water to the hungry, and provides whatever other aid they can.

## Spinners
The [Spinners](Lore_Spinners.md) (or **Earthbone Spinners**) are [Bosmeri](Lore_Bosmer.md) priests and historians, who record the story of their people—past, present, and even future. Principally associated with [Y'ffre](Lore_Y%27ffre.md), Storyteller and chief god in the Bosmeri pantheon, Spinners may serve other gods in their quest for historical knowledge. They seek to maintain all Bosmeri history, culture, and laws, usually in the form of stories or metaphors, which can be difficult to comprehend but always ultimately correct. Thus, they serve as highly-influential advisors and bards, as well as helping to enforce Y'ffre's [Green Pact](Lore_Green_Pact.md). The most talented among them can utterly ensnare listeners within their story as a potent [illusion](Lore_Illusion.md), casting them as a character within the tale and thus influencing their emotions. It is said that Spinners travel nowhere except when carried by others, never moving under their own power.

## Spiritblood Clan
[Spiritblood Clan](Lore_Spiritblood_Clan.md) was one of numerous [clans](Lore_Reachman_Clans.md) of [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md) that lived in [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md) since the ancient times, during the [First](Lore_First_Era.md) and [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). They were known for their fierce warriors and rites of passage set in [Vateshran Hollows](Lore_Vateshran_Hollows.md).

## Spiritdancer Clan
[Spiritdancer Clan](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Spiritdancer_Clan) was one of numerous [clans](Lore_Reachman_Clans.md) of [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md) that lived in [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md) during the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). They used to feud with [Twisted Briar Clan](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Twisted_Briar_Clan).

## Spirit-Tale Clan
[Spirit-Tale Clan](Lore_Spirit-Tale_Clan.md) was a [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachman.md) [clan](Lore_Reachman_Clans.md) featured in the [Investigator Vale](Lore_Investigator_Vale.md) series of novels. According to the novels they lived in [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md) during the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md).

## Spode
[Spode](Lore_Spode.md) is a noble [Breton](Lore_Breton.md) family associated with the March of [Glenpoint](Lore_Glenpoint.md). Little is known about the Spodes' history, except that Lord Bertram Spode was an associate of the [Thieves Guild](Lore_Thieves_Guild.md) around circa [3E 405](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_405). Their exact status within the region is unclear, as Glenpoint was ruled by an unknown marquis during that time.

## Stag-Heart Clan
[Stag-Heart Clan](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Stag-Heart_Clan) was one of the numerous [clans](Lore_Reachman_Clans.md) of [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md) that lived in [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md) during the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md).

Reachfolk of the Stag-Heart clan were known to worship the [Great Spirit](Lore_Daedric_Prince.md) [Hircine](Lore_Hircine.md) in his aspect of Uricanbeg, the Great Stag. They believed that Uricanbeg's hooves drum the Blood Summons. Members of the clans were considered a sect by some. Antlered helmets were typical headdresses for the Stag-Hearts.

Similarly to the many other Reachfolk clans, they were distrustful of the underground dwellings of the [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md).

## Star-Gazers
The [Star-Gazers](Lore_Star-Gazers.md), once known as the **Esteemed Order of the Observers of the Celestial Motions and Portents**, are an order of scholars devoted to the study of the [stars](Lore_Astronomy.md) and the meaning of their motions. They are based in [Belkarth](Lore_Belkarth.md), a major settlement in the [Craglorn](Lore_Craglorn.md) region. The order has been active since at least the early Second Era.

## Starsinger Clan
[Starsinger Clan](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Starsinger_Clan) was one of numerous [clans](Lore_Reachman_Clans.md) of [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md) that lived in the [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) during the times of the [Longhouse Emperors](Lore_Longhouse_Emperors.md) and in later, after the fall of the dynasty, in the city of [Markarth](Lore_Markarth.md) in [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md) during the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md).

Spilling blood on a feast day was considered a taboo among the Starsingers.

## Stonehands
The [Stonehands](Lore_Stonehands.md) were a [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachman.md) group sworn to serve Ard [Caddach](Lore_Ard_Caddach.md) who ruled the city of [Markarth](Lore_Markarth.md) as well as the eastern part of [The Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md) during mid- [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). The exact date of the group's forming is unclear, but they are known to have pledged loyalty to Caddach long before he claimed the title of ard and rose to power in Markarth. The Stonehands mainly acted as Caddach's personal guard and occasionally as spies, scouts and counselors. Yet, the Stonehands themselves saw their mission spanning beyond that of a personal guard, claiming to have devoted their lives to protecting all of the Reach and its people.

Although Stonehands referred to themselves as a clan they were primarily known for their service to the Ard. Becoming a Stonehand was not exclusive - it was widely known among the Reachfolk of Markarth that they were willing to admit members of other clans into their ranks if they proved worthy.

## Stonetalon Clan
The [Stonetalon Clan](Lore_Stonetalon_Clan.md) was one of the [clans](Lore_Reachman_Clans.md) of [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md) that lived in [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md), a region in western [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) during the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md) in the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). Although the Reachfolk of the Stonetalon Clan were known to be more aggressive than many Reachfolk clans, who traded with their neighbors peacefully, they were noted to be more passive than [Rageclaws](Lore_Rageclaw_Clan.md) and [Boneshapers](Lore_Boneshaper_Clan.md), and exhibited several particular and combative behaviors. They were a matriarchal clan, but their women were rarely seen. While rare, they were known for their advanced, powerful magic and heavy cloaks made of bird feathers.

It was theorized that they were passing through a series of trials, though the purpose of those trials was unknown to certain scholars. In reality, they were one of the rare clans closely affiliated with the [Hagravens](Lore_Hagraven.md).

## Stormcloak Clan
The [Stormcloak Clan](Lore_Stormcloak_Clan.md) was a [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) clan from [Windhelm](Lore_Windhelm.md).

The Stormcloaks could trace their lineage all the way back to the founding of Windhelm in the [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md), and boasted of having helped to build the city. During the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md), the clan owned a vineyard that produced some vintages that were regarded as extremely rare collector's items by the time of the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md).

Skegglund Stormcloak was a veteran of Windhelm's city guard who later joined the [Fighters Guild](Lore_Fighters_Guild.md) sometime before [2E 578](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_578). Circa [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), [Mera Stormcloak](Lore_Mera_Stormcloak.md) served as a thane of Windhelm, and was a trusted subject of [Jorunn the Skald-King](Lore_Jorunn.md). Mera's father had held the slightly lesser position of Windhelm's Captain of the Guard.

By far the most notable member of the clan was [Ulfric Stormcloak](Lore_Ulfric_Stormcloak.md), who inherited the title of Jarl of Windhelm from his father [Hoag Stormcloak](Lore_Hoag_Stormcloak.md) in [4E 183](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_183). He began the [Stormcloak Rebellion](Lore_Stormcloak_Rebellion.md) in [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201) in order to usurp [Torygg](Lore_Torygg.md) as High King of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) and restore [Talos](Lore_Talos.md) worship.

The Stormcloak Clan possesses a clan heirloom, a battleaxe named Bjornblad. Another clan heirloom, Ulfric's Sword, is a sword responsible for taking many lives. The Stormcloaks are also known for producing [blacksmithing](Lore_Smithing.md) aprons; made in Windhelm, these aprons protect the wearer from both flames and freezing winds.

## Stormcloaks
The [Stormcloaks](Lore_Stormcloaks.md) (known more formally as the **Sons and Daughters of Skyrim**) were the main organization of rebels in [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md)'s [Stormcloak Rebellion](Lore_Stormcloak_Rebellion.md). Strongest in eastern Skyrim and based in [Windhelm](Lore_Windhelm.md), they were originally founded by [Ulfric Stormcloak](Lore_Ulfric_Stormcloak.md) as a private army to advance his interests. A few years later in [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201), after Ulfric killed [High King Torygg](Lore_High_King_Torygg.md), their ranks swelled with those who supported his call for an end to the ban on [Talos](Lore_Talos.md) worship, as well as action against the [Empire](Lore_Empire.md) and the [Thalmor](Lore_Thalmor.md). The Stormcloaks claimed to be the only ones who could call themselves true Sons (or Daughters) of Skyrim, although their ranks were not strictly limited to [Nords](Lore_Nord.md).

## Stormfist Clan
The [Stormfist Clan](Lore_Stormfist_Clan.md) was a [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) clan of [Whiterun Tundra](Lore_Whiterun_Hold.md), known for their prowess at battle and armor crafting. Their founder and ancestor was Ogra Stormfist, the powerful matriarch who ruled the clan for nearly fifty years. The clan's involvement was pivotal in numerous conflicts, such as in the Battle of Whiterun Hold and the Massacre at Dialmarch. However, their engagement in the Siege of Windhelm during the [Second Akaviri Invasion](Lore_Second_Akaviri_Invasion.md) in [2E 572](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_572) ended in their downfall and isolation.

## Stranglehollow Clan
[Stranglehollow Clan](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Stranglehollow_Clan) was one of numerous [clans](Lore_Reachman_Clans.md) of [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md) that lived in [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md). They were extinct as of the times of the [Three Banners War](Lore_Three_Banners_War.md), during the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md) in the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), but some of their traditions were still remembered by the Reachfolk of [Markarth](Lore_Markarth.md) in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582). One of their customs involved [bones of their ancestors](Lore_Ancestor_Worship.md#Other_Traditions) and [local drinks](Lore_Reachman_Cuisine.md). The Stranglehollows toasted each other with a drink mixed using the fingerbone of an ancestor.

## Sul-Xan
The [Sul-Xan](Lore_Sul-Xan.md) is a tribe or cult of [Nagas](Lore_Naga.md) once led by Flame-Herald Bahsei, who worship chaos and [Mehrunes Dagon](Lore_Mehrunes_Dagon.md) as the Razor Prince and the True Egg-Child of [Sithis](Lore_Sithis.md). Their homes are known as the legendary [Xi-Tsei](Lore_Xi-Tsei.md) xanmeer, the conquered [Rockgrove](Lore_Rockgrove.md) and Silent Halls, and they raid the surrounding region of [Blackwood](Lore_Blackwood.md) and are greatly feared by the Argonians of the surrounding villages. They perform ritual sacrifices and create wide soul snares with the intent to summon powerful spirits of destruction.

## Summerset Shadows
A group of thieves from the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md) who attempted to set up shop in [Windhelm](Lore_Windhelm.md) around [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201). Much like the [Thieves Guild](Lore_Thieves_Guild.md) in many regions, they forbade their thieves to murder while on a job. Of course, the Thieves Guild of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) being more flexible on this injunction did not greet this incursion with pitchers of mead. On behalf of a client, they shamed the group by slaying their leader and embarrassing them, quickly bringing about an end to their organized presence in Skyrim.<sup>[[3]](#cite_note-Skyrim-3)</sup>

## Sun Birds of Alinor
The [Sun Birds of Alinor](Lore_Sun_Birds_of_Alinor.md) were a mythical order of [Aldmeri](Lore_Aldmer.md) explorers from the [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md). According to legend, they managed to pierce the veil between [Mundus](Lore_Mundus.md) and [Aetherius](Lore_Aetherius.md) using raw magic of the [Ehlnofey](Lore_Ehlnofey.md). Their expeditions to Aetherius are said to be among the most famous attempts in history, alongside similar endeavors undertaken by the [Royal Imperial Mananauts](Lore_Royal_Imperial_Mananauts.md) of the [Elder Council](Lore_Elder_Council.md) during the time of the [Reman Dynasty](Lore_Reman_Dynasty.md), but some scholars believe that actual proof of a successful journey is nonexistent.

The order was eventually dissolved due to the vast expenditures of magicka required to travel. Few remaining legacies exist of these fabled travelers. Possibly the most notable example is the [Great Orrery](Lore_Great_Orrery.md) at [Firsthold](Lore_Firsthold.md), whose spheres are made up of genuine celestial mineral gathered by travelers during the Merethic Era.

Lastly, during the mid-Second Era, a prismatic Sun Bird feather was unearthed by the [University of Gwylim](Lore_University_of_Gwylim.md)'s Antiquarian Circle. While its exact function remains unknown, scholars speculated it may have been an orienteering tool of some sort.

Their [vessels](Lore_Air_Transportation.md#Sunbirds) have been described as "[birds](Lore_Bird.md) made out of the [sun](Lore_Sun.md)".

## Sunnatren
The [Sunnatren](Lore_Sunnatren.md) were a group or culture of which little is known. They were enemies of the [Ayleid Empire](Lore_Ayleid_Empire.md), and the [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) Sorcerer-King [Umaril the Unfeathered](Lore_Umaril.md) sought their defeat. The Sunnatren were known to fly banners that portrayed crude [elks](Lore_Elk.md); as a result, Umaril had elks trained as war-mounts to be used against them, hoping that his forces could inspire fear atop such beasts. The elks took a season to train, though the result of the campaign against the Sunnatren is unknown.

## Supernal Dreamers
The **Supernal Dreamers** were a Daedric Cult who were active primarily in the region of [Stormhaven](Lore_Stormhaven.md) in [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md), but were also found in [Vaermina](Lore_Vaermina.md)'s Shrine in [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) by the time of the year [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582). They believed Vaermina to be the greatest of the [Daedric Princes](Lore_Daedric_Princes.md) and used to spread word of her divinity across [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md), demanding the death of those that did not agree with their vision if they were not able to be converted also claiming that she was the only one able to save Cyrodiil from the chaos of the time of the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md), hoping that she would be able to bring peace to the land and even offering some of their own ranks as willing sacrifices. They often carried out their attacks within people's dreams, allowing them to feed on their victim's lifeforce.

## Surilie
The [Surilie](Lore_Surilie.md) family are [Bretonic](Lore_Breton.md) vintners whose history stretches through at least three [eras](Lore_Era.md). They produce some of the best wines in [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md), with it being particularly famous in [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). The family is synonymous with their brand name, the **Surilie Brothers Winery** (**Surilie Brothers** for short), or the **Surilie Farms**. By the end of the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), their base of operations was located at the wine-producing capital of Tamriel, [Skingrad](Lore_Skingrad.md), where they established the Surilie Vineyards. At that time, they had a friendly rivalry with the Tamika Winery. When asked if the wine from the Surilie or the Tamika Vineyards were better, Skingrad's citizens said that [Tamika's](Lore_Tamika.md) was "every bit as good as the Surilie Brothers wines". However, Davide Surilie believed his creations were not as good as Tamika's wine but were more affordable.

## Sweeps
The [Sweeps](Lore_Sweeps.md) were a guild of broom handlers who were well compensated for sweeping up ash that fell from [Red Mountain](Lore_Red_Mountain.md) into nearby cities on [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md). They mostly worked in big cities such as [Vivec City](Lore_Vivec_City.md). During the unholy union between [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md) and [Vivec](Lore_Vivec.md) known as the Pomegranate Banquet, Vivec excreted a monster progeny known as [Lie Rock](Lore_Lie_Rock.md). The Sweeps guild removed Lie Rock from the Pomegranate Banquet but they were not aware of his divine nature and Lie Rock escaped the clutches of the Sweep, ascending into the heavens. The guild evidently disbanded at some point and became largely forgotten to history.

## Sword-singers
[Sword-singers](Lore_Sword-singers.md) (or **Sword Singers**) were an order of [Yokudan](Lore_Yokudan.md) warriors who followed the "Way of the Sword", a martial philosophy on blade mastery. Singers were capable of astonishing feats of swordsmanship, and were viewed by some to be as much mages as warriors. They sought strength of body, and of mind. Although the tradition of sword-singing originated in Yokuda, it was brought to the shores of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) by the [Ra Gada](Lore_Ra_Gada.md) in the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md). The sword-singers were instrumental in claiming the entire province of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md) and establishing a new homeland for the Yokudan people. The **Ansei** (or **Sword Saints**) were the greatest among them. The most accomplished sword-singer in history was [Frandar Hunding](Lore_Frandar_Hunding.md), whose writings on the subject were revered by the [Redguards](Lore_Redguard.md) centuries later.

## The Syffim
The forerunner of the [Fighters Guild](Lore_Fighters_Guild.md), the **Syffim** was founded by the Akaviri Potentate [Versidue-Shaie](Lore_Versidue-Shaie.md) and his kinsman [Dinieras-Ves](Lore_Dinieras-Ves.md). Although it began as an Akaviri-only organization named after the [Tsaesci](Lore_Tsaesci_(race).md) word for 'soldiers', it eventually opened its doors to all races. The Syffim became the Fighters Guild when it received its charter in [2E 321](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_321).<sup>[[4]](#cite_note-HOTFG-4)</sup>

## Synod
The [Synod](Lore_Synod.md) is one of the organizations formed after the dissolution of the [Mages Guild](Lore_Mages_Guild.md) at the start of the [Fourth Era](Lore_Fourth_Era.md), the other being the [College of Whispers](Lore_College_of_Whispers.md). The two groups are rivals, and constantly strive to earn the favor of the [Elder Council](Lore_Elder_Council.md). The Synod played a part in defending the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md) from [Umbriel](Lore_Umbriel.md) circa [4E 48](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_48).

Unlike the College of Whispers, the Synod continued the Guild's ban on [Necromancy](Lore_Necromancy.md), and has also banned at least some other aspects of [Conjuration](Lore_Conjuration.md). The Synod does not share knowledge quite as freely as the Mages Guild once did. One might have a chance of learning certain spells after a few years of paying the organization's dues. The Synod uses a special system of encryption that makes use of some symbols from [Tamrielic](Lore_Tamrielic.md). It is a specific system that, once memorized, can make deciphering it effortless. For instance, keys to a particular part of a message may be found in the next passage. Larger parts may also represent whole ideas, like a spell, artifact, or certain energies.

The Synod is headed by a Grand Council. Ranks within the Synod include Attendant and First Adjunct. One of the divisions within the Synod is the Binder's Conclave, which enchanted a focusing crystal for use at the Oculory of [Mzulft](Lore_Mzulft.md). Both the College of Whispers and the Synod have attempted to form alliances with the [College of Winterhold](Lore_College_of_Winterhold.md), but despite pressures the independent organization has remained neutral. [Hierem](Lore_Hierem.md), the former minister of Emperor [Titus Mede I](Lore_Titus_Mede_I.md) was a member of the Synod, and reportedly held vast influence over it.

In [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201), the Synod attempted to use the Oculory of Mzulft to locate [artifacts](Lore_Artifacts.md) of great magical power, but the [Eye of Magnus](Lore_Eye_of_Magnus.md) prevented the Oculory from working correctly. The Eye was being held at the College of Winterhold at the time, which may have embittered relationships with the Synod.

## References
1. [^](#cite_ref-ADIF_1-0) [*A Dance in Fire, Chapter 5*](Lore_A_Dance_in_Fire,_Chapter_5.md) — [Waughin Jarth](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Waughin_Jarth)
2. [^](#cite_ref-Dralys Dia_2-0) [Dralys Athren](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Dralys_Athren)'s dialogue during [Eye of Fate](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Eye_of_Fate) in [ESO](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Online)
3. [^](#cite_ref-Skyrim_3-0) Events of *[Skyrim](Skyrim_Skyrim.md)*
4. [^](#cite_ref-HOTFG_4-0) [*History of the Fighters Guild*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:History_of_the_Fighters_Guild)