# People R

[Overview](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:People) | [A](Lore_People_A.md) [B](Lore_People_B.md) [C](Lore_People_C.md) [D](Lore_People_D.md) [E](Lore_People_E.md) [F](Lore_People_F.md) [G](Lore_People_G.md) [H](Lore_People_H.md) [I](Lore_People_I.md) [J](Lore_People_J.md) [K](Lore_People_K.md) [L](Lore_People_L.md) [M](Lore_People_M.md) [N](Lore_People_N.md) [O](Lore_People_O.md) [P](Lore_People_P.md) [Q](Lore_People_Q.md) R [S](Lore_People_S.md) [T](Lore_People_T.md) [U](Lore_People_U.md) [V](Lore_People_V.md) [W](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:People_W) [X](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:People_X) [Y](Lore_People_Y.md) [Z](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:People_Z)
---

#### Ra Abah (fl. 1E 8th century)
[Ra Abah](Lore_Ra_Abah.md) was a renowned [Yokudan](Lore_Yokuda.md) warrior who fought alongside [Frandar Hunding](Lore_Frandar_Hunding.md) in the [War of the Singers](Lore_War_of_the_Singers.md) against the armies of Emperor [Hira](Lore_Hira.md). In his elderly years he accompanied Prince [Hubalajad](Lore_Hubalajad.md) in his sea travel from [Herne](Lore_Herne_(island).md) to [Khefrem's Boot](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Khefrem%27s_Boot). Near the shore, the prince was attacked by scouts of a local [Nedic](Lore_Nede.md) tribe before landing. Angered by the attack on the prince, Ra Abah left the ship and killed seven Nedes before Hubalajad and other warriors could join him. Due to the fact that Ra Abah was the first person to land. Prince Hubalajad named the place [Abah's Landing](Lore_Abah%27s_Landing.md) in honor of the elderly warrior.

He was buried in the Valley of the Blades after his death. The teachings of Ra Abah remained highly esteemed and were followed by Redguard swordmasters as late as [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582). They were listed alongside the teachings and principles of other Ansei such as [Divad Hunding](Lore_Divad_Hunding.md), [Satameh](Lore_Satameh.md), and Kalam. According to these teachings, while a warrior may refine their skills to excellence and sharpen their blade to cut through stone and steel effortlessly, the measure of a true swordsman lies in the caliber of adversaries they attract.

#### Rada al-Saran (?b - [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582))
[Rada al-Saran](Lore_Rada_al-Saran.md) was an ancient warrior who claimed to match the gods in the way of the sword. Born in [Yokuda](Lore_Yokuda.md), he ventured to the bloody shores of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md) to dedicate himself to perfecting his swordsmanship, and would first manifest his [Shehai](Lore_Shehai.md) there. His commitment to perfection was necessary, as to gain glory back in Yokuda, where "peerless swordmasters were as common as grains of sand", he would need nothing less. According to legend, to challenge himself, he dueled [Leki](Lore_Leki.md) to a standstill. He would later go on to join the [Gray Host](Lore_Gray_Host.md) in the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md), and was responsible for the group's resurgence when he became a Vampire Lord by the title of the **Ashen Lord** during the Interregnum.

#### Radac Stungnthumz (fl. before 1E 700)
[Radac Stungnthumz](Lore_Radac_Stungnthumz.md) was a [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md) [weaponsmith](Lore_Smithing.md) and soldier who inhabited [Bamz-Amschend](Lore_Bamz-Amschend.md). Although he was merely a warrior and craftsman, he was remembered as a powerful mystic and author of ancient texts. After his death, he remained as a ghost and played a crucial role in the process of reforging and reigniting the [Trueflame](Lore_Trueflame.md), a legendary weapon of [Nerevar](Lore_Nerevar.md).

#### Raerlas Ghile (fl. before 3E 427)
[Raerlas Ghile](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Raerlas_Ghile) was a legendary ranger who was granted the powerful artifact of [Nocturnal](Lore_Nocturnal.md), the [Bow of Shadows](Lore_Bow_of_Shadows.md) for a secret mission that ultimately failed. Upon the failure of the mission Raerlas did not go down without a fight and with the aid of the bow was said to have taken scores of his foes down with him.<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-1)</sup><sup>[[2]](#cite_note-AJ-2)</sup>

#### Rahgot (?b - 4E 201)
[Rahgot](Lore_Rahgot.md), whose name means "Rage" in the [Dragon language](Lore_Dragon_Language.md), was an ancient [Dragon Priest](Lore_Dragon_Priest.md) of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). He led the last remnants of the [Dragon Cult](Lore_Dragon_Cult.md) from the secluded monastery of [Forelhost](Lore_Forelhost.md) high in the [Jerall Mountains](Lore_Jerall_Mountains.md) until [1E 140](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_140). As a Dragon Priest, he was a powerful mage, also able to wield the [Thu'um](Lore_Thu%27um.md) in battle. After the defeat of [Alduin](Lore_Alduin.md) during the [Dragon War](Lore_Dragon_War.md), the ruling Dragon Priests were overthrown. Several sects of the Dragon Cult adapted and survived by going into hiding all across Skyrim. Many held the belief that Alduin would one day return and resurrect the faithful. Rahgot and his cultists were one such sect, and until that day they chose to bide their time within Forelhost.

#### Princess Rakma (fl. 3E 120)
The Princess of [Farrun](Lore_Farrun.md) and daughter of King Lleromo. The future Emperor [Uriel III](Lore_Uriel_III.md) spent a good deal of time with her, and Uriel's mother, [Potema](Lore_Potema.md), planned to arrange a political marriage between them because she wanted to keep Rakma's father, King Lleromo, as an ally.<sup>[[3]](#cite_note-3)</sup> It is unknown if Rakma and Uriel ever married.

#### King Ralethiel Direnni (fl. early 1E)
**King** [Ralethiel](Lore_Ralethiel_Direnni.md) of Clan [Direnni](Lore_Direnni.md) was the ruler of [Altmeri](Lore_Altmer.md) -controlled [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md), during the times of the conflict between Clan Direnni and the [Alessian Order](Lore_Alessian_Order.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md).

With the rise of the [Alessian Order](Lore_Alessian_Order.md) in Cyrodiil in [1E 361](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_361), many Ayleids fleeing Cyrodiil migrated to High Rock to escape the order in an exodus known as the [Ayleid Diaspora](Lore_Ayleid_Diaspora.md), which may have strengthened Clan Direnni as these immigrants were absorbed into their hegemony. When [Laloriaran Dynar](Lore_Laloriaran_Dynar.md) and his people arrived at the Bjoulsae in [1E 375](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_375), they were welcomed by the Direnni and given a place to settle. During the reign of Ralethiel, many Ayleids hoped to aid the Direnni against the Alessians, hoping to get lands from the king as a reward. One such Ayleid was betrayed by his brothers and prevented from participating in the war. He was bound in the Dresan Keep in [Glenumbra](Lore_Glenumbra.md), and was not able to witness any of the Direnni victories, notably the [Battle of Glenumbra Moors](Lore_Battle_of_Glenumbra_Moors.md).

The ghost of the Ralethiel's supporter was ultimately freed in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582) by [an adventurer](Lore_The_Vestige.md), but it is unknown whether he passed to [Aetherius](Lore_Aetherius.md) or remained in [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md).

#### Ralliballah (fl. 1E or earlier)
[Ralliballah](Lore_Ralliballah.md) was a [mage](Lore_Magic.md) and the author of *Eleven Ritual Forms*, regarded as an authority in the field of [conjuration](Lore_Conjuration.md) magic, whose works were cited and studied by prominent scholars across the eras.

#### Grand Commander Ralyn Othravel (fl. 3E 427)
[Ralyn Othravel](Lore_Ralyn_Othravel.md) was a [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) member of the [Tribunal Temple](Lore_Tribunal_Temple.md) and the Grand Commander of the [Ordinators](Lore_Ordinators.md) in the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md). He was also the wielder of the legendary [Auriel's Bow](Lore_Auriel%27s_Bow.md).

#### King Ramzi the Distrait (2E ? - c. [2E 560](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_560))
King [Ramzi the Distrait](Lore_Ramzi_the_Distrait.md) was the ruler of the [Kingdom of Sentinel](Lore_Sentinel_(kingdom).md) in the mid- [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). He is remembered as a self-serving and weak-willed ruler who failed to protect his subjects from the [Knahaten Flu](Lore_Knahaten_Flu.md). Ramzi regarded the plague as divine punishment from Ruptga for his personal failings. As his courtiers succumbed to the flu, Ramzi sealed himself in the [Samuruik](Lore_Samuruik.md) Palace and slowly starved to death because of his fear of contracting the virus, leaving the kingdom in chaos. As Sentinel fell into chaos, a young [Forebear](Lore_Forebear.md) noble named [Fahara'jad](Lore_Fahara%27jad.md), a descendant of High King [Ar-Azal](Lore_Ar-Azal.md), traveled from [Bergama](Lore_Bergama.md) and declared himself king of Sentinel.

The Crowns believed Ramzi was usurped and acted with vehement repudiation against Fahara'jad; however, Forebear viziers and northern chieftains ratified his ascension. Support for Fahara'jad was not unanimous. The [Crown](Lore_Crown.md) nobility in the southern cities of [Hegathe](Lore_Hegathe.md), [Gilane](Lore_Gilane.md), [Taneth](Lore_Taneth.md), and [Rihad](Lore_Rihad.md) supported [Grandee Zizzeen](Lore_Zizzeen.md)'s claim to the throne instead.

#### Randic Torn (?b - [1E 737](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_737))
[Randic Torn](Lore_Randic_Torn.md) was a commoner who took over the government of [Yokuda](Lore_Yokuda.md) after the assassination of [Mansel Sesnit](Lore_Mansel_Sesnit.md) in [1E 617](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_617). He tried to continue the work of Sesnit and unify the Yokudan Empire after almost three centuries of internal conflict. He revived the age-old rift between the [sword singers](Lore_Sword-singers.md) and the commoners by introducing restrictions on the wearing of swords. "Torn's Sword-Hunt", as it was known, meant that only the singers were allowed to wear swords, which distinguished them from the rest of the population. Although Torn did much to settle the empire into its pre-strife ways, by the time of his death in [1E 737](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_737) internal disturbances still had not been completely eliminated. Upon his death, a vicious civil war broke out.<sup>[[4]](#cite_note-RTHATH-4)</sup><sup>[[5]](#cite_note-EGTNBat M-5)</sup>

#### Ranev the Coal-Eyed Wanderer (fl. Merethic Era or early 1E)
[Ranev](Lore_Ranev.md) was a mythical [Nedic](Lore_Nede.md) heroine that lived in the wilderlands of [Craglorn](Lore_Craglorn.md), in what is now the province of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md). Known widely as **Ranev the Coal-Eyed Wanderer**, she was a renowned warrior and skilled spear-maiden. Some of her exploits include her triumphant victory in the Autumn of Snakes and her pilgrimage on the [Gray Passage](Lore_The_Gray_Passage_(compilation).md), where she earned the moniker **Ranev the Favored of the Stars**.

#### Commander Rangidil Ketil ([2E 803](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_803) - [3E 195](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_195))
[Rangidil Ketil](Lore_Rangidil_Ketil.md), the thrice-blessed, was a [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) and the commander of the [Temple Ordinators](Lore_Ordinators.md). His most renowned accomplishment was defeating Dagoth Thras in [Abernanit](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Abernanit).

#### King Ranser (?b - 2E 567)
[Ranser](Lore_Ranser.md) was the King of [Shornhelm](Lore_Shornhelm.md) and the last monarch from [House Branquette](Lore_House_Branquette.md), reigning from [2E 546](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_546) to [2E 567](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_567). Ranser ruled during what many consider the high point of [Rivenspire](Lore_Rivenspire.md)'s history. After [Emeric](Lore_Emeric.md) of Cumberland became the King of [Wayrest](Lore_Wayrest_(kingdom).md) in [2E 563](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_563), he began courting Ranser's daughter, [Rayelle](Lore_Rayelle.md). However, before the marriage contracts were worked out, Emeric chose instead to marry Princess [Maraya](Lore_Maraya.md) of [Sentinel](Lore_Sentinel_(kingdom).md), infuriating Ranser and leading to the start of [Ranser's War](Lore_Ranser%27s_War.md) in [2E 566](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_566). Ranser and his army besieged [Wayrest](Lore_Wayrest.md) from Last Seed 2E 566 until the spring of [2E 567](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_567), when Emeric's allies broke the siege and drove them out of [Stormhaven](Lore_Stormhaven.md) and back into Rivenspire. Emeric's allies subsequently almost completely annihilated Ranser's army at the Battle of [Markwasten Moor](Lore_Markwasten_Moor.md), but he was able to escape with a small contingent of soldiers and aides and retreat to the top of a nameless tor overlooking Shornhelm to make their last stand. However, at the tor, Ranser was murdered by his most trusted general, Dathieu, bringing an end to Ranser's War.

#### Jarl Rasman the Red (fl. Merethic Era or First Era)
[Rasman](Lore_Rasman.md) **the Red** was the first Jarl of [Whiterun Hold](Lore_Whiterun_Hold.md). Although he is considered the first Jarl, in reality the first leader and the founder of the city of [Whiterun](Lore_Whiterun.md) was [Jeek of the River](Lore_Jeek_of_the_River.md).

Little is known of Rasman's history. During his time, two special commemorative medallions featuring the image of a horse were crafted. One of these was passed down from Jarl to Jarl, but by [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201), no Jarl had ever deemed the other worthy of being given to a deserving individual—until the times of [Balgruuf the Greater](Lore_Balgruuf_the_Greater.md), who offered it, along with other memorabilia, to a [worthy individual](Lore_Last_Dragonborn.md).

#### The Rat (fl. 2E 564 - 582)
[The Rat](Lore_The_Rat.md) was a former advisor to [Emperor Leovic](Lore_Leovic.md), who remained hiding in the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md) after his emperor was deposed. His extensive knowledge of the hidden passages within the city was instrumental in defending the capital from the attack of the forces of [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md) in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582).

#### Raven Camoran (3E ? - [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433))
[Raven Camoran](Lore_Raven_Camoran.md) was a powerful [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md) assassin and the son of [Mankar Camoran](Lore_Mankar_Camoran.md). Along with his sister, [Ruma](Lore_Ruma_Camoran.md), he served as a lieutenant in their father's cult, the [Mythic Dawn](Lore_Mythic_Dawn.md) —a group of [Mehrunes Dagon](Lore_Mehrunes_Dagon.md) worshippers responsible for the assassination of [Uriel Septim VII](Lore_Uriel_Septim_VII.md) in [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433) as part of their attempt to bring about the destruction of [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md). As a son of Mankar Camoran and therefore likely a grandson of [Camoran Usurper](Lore_Camoran_Usurper.md), he had ties to the royal [Camoran Dynasty](Lore_Camoran_Dynasty.md) of [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md).

#### Raven Direnni (fl. 1E 5th century)
[Raven Direnni](Lore_Raven_Direnni.md) was an [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md) noblewoman. She is often mentioned alongside her cousins, [Aiden](Lore_Aiden_Direnni.md) and [Ryain Direnni](Lore_Ryain_Direnni.md), all of whom played a major role in the historical [Battle of Glenumbra Moors](Lore_Battle_of_Glenumbra_Moors.md), but beyond that, she is sometimes accredited as the creator of [enchanting](Lore_Enchanting.md), a [magical](Lore_Magic.md) discipline in which you use a [soul gem](Lore_Soul_Gem.md) to embed magical powers into an inanimate object.

#### Witch Raven's Hand (fl. 2E 6th century)
[Raven's Hand](Lore_Raven%27s_Hand.md) was a figure from the oral tradition of the [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md). She was a [witch](Lore_Witches.md) of [Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md) origins known for her remarkable power. The tale of *The Seeping Sickness of Karthwasten*, spoke of her involvement in a massacre in [Karthwasten](Lore_Karthwasten.md), resulting in many deaths among both the [Nords](Lore_Nord.md) and the Reachfolk.

#### Raxle Berne (? - [3E 427](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_427))
[Raxle Berne](Lore_Raxle_Berne.md) was an [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) [vampire](Lore_Vampire.md) and the patriarch of the [Berne Clan](Lore_Berne_Clan.md) of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md). He occupied the [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md) ruin of Galom Daeus, which functioned as the fortress of his clan.

#### Princess Rayelle (fl. 2E 563 - 566)
[Rayelle](Lore_Rayelle.md) was a [Breton](Lore_Breton.md) princess from the Kingdom of [Rivenspire](Lore_Rivenspire.md). She was the daughter of King [Ranser](Lore_Ranser.md), the last monarch of [Shornhelm](Lore_Shornhelm.md) from [House Branquette](Lore_House_Branquette.md). Rayelle was King [Emeric](Lore_Emeric.md) of [Wayrest](Lore_Wayrest_(kingdom).md)'s first choice for his royal bride, but before the marriage contracts were worked out, he chose instead to marry Princess [Maraya](Lore_Maraya.md) of [Sentinel](Lore_Sentinel_(kingdom).md). Emeric not marrying Rayelle enraged Ranser, sparking [Ranser's War](Lore_Ranser%27s_War.md), a civil war between Rivenspire and the rest of the [Daggerfall Covenant](Lore_Daggerfall_Covenant.md).

#### Razotha Tale-Teller (fl. before [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582))
[Razotha Tale-Teller](Lore_Razotha_Tale-Teller.md) was a renowned [Orcish](Lore_Orc.md) bard, historian, and storyteller of legendary status. She defied the conventional Orcish reliance on oral tradition by favoring the written word. Despite being acknowledged as the greatest storyteller of her age, Razotha sought a lasting legacy for her narratives. To ensure their enduring presence, she commissioned an [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md) wizard to enchant a black feather obtained from a [hagraven](Lore_Hagraven.md), birthing the legendary Black Quill, a bardic writing instrument that supposedly prevented anything written down with it from being forgotten.

#### Yokeda Razul (fl. [1E 808](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_808))
**Yokeda** [Razul](Lore_Razul.md) was a powerful [Yokudan](Lore_Yokudan.md) warrior who fought alongside [Divad Hunding](Lore_Divad_Hunding.md) and played a significant role among the leaders of the [Ra Gada](Lore_Ra_Gada.md) forces during the conquest of [Alik'r](Lore_Alik%27r.md). Some sources also regard him as the first of the [Forebears](Lore_Forebears.md).

#### Razum-dar (fl. 2E 582)
[Razum-dar](Lore_Razum-dar.md) (known as **Raz** to his companions) was a [Khajiit](Lore_Khajiit.md) spymaster who was the leader and first member of the [Eyes of the Queen](Lore_Eyes_of_the_Queen.md) —the secret intelligence network that served [Queen Ayrenn](Lore_Ayrenn.md) of the [First Aldmeri Dominion](Lore_Aldmeri_Dominion.md#First_Dominion) during the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md) in the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). Hailing from [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md), Razum-dar's background was largely shrouded in mystery, and he often used that to his advantage. As a master of subterfuge, he adopted countless disguises for a variety of roles as part of his intelligence gathering. His persistence and natural charisma made it easy for him to extract information from others without them ever realizing they were being interrogated. Just as skilled at vanishing without a trace, he was also a formidable combatant when necessary, trained in the Goutfang, Desert Rain, and Whispering Fang [Claw-Dance](Lore_Claw-Dances.md) fighting styles.

#### Red Bramman (?b - [1E 1033](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_1033))
[Red Bramman](Lore_Red_Bramman.md), also known as the **Bandit King**, was an infamous [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md) brigand based in [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md) who gained notoriety due to his piracy against the [Alessian Empire](Lore_Alessian_Empire.md) in [Topal Bay](Lore_Topal_Bay.md). He was an [Argonian](Lore_Argonian.md), but was documented by [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) historians as one of the first [men](Lore_Men.md) to venture deep into the Marsh. Bramman earned the nickname "Red" due to his red hair, which he possessed despite being an Argonian.

Bramman and other brigands used the swamplands of Black Marsh to disappear without recourse after raiding the easily accessible riches of the Empire. Bramman established a bandit kingdom deep within the swamps, near the site of the future city of [Blackrose](Lore_Blackrose.md). It was connected to Topal Bay by a narrow, winding river that emptied into the Bay near [Soulrest](Lore_Soulrest.md) and was shrouded from view by mangroves. According to Imperial accounts, Bramman and similar human brigands were the first contact most Argonians had with Imperial civilization. They raped, pillaged, and enslaved the natives, causing Argonians to become skittish of the Alessian Empire.

In [1E 1033](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_1033), Empress [Hestra](Lore_Hestra.md) demanded Red Bramman's head. After many unsuccessful battles in Topal Bay, the [Imperial Navy](Lore_Imperial_Navy.md) discovered Bramman's river and sent a fleet to catch Bramman in his brigand kingdom in what became known as the Raid of Red Bramman. The crew of the *Dominus Fatum* were responsible for his capture. His head was brought before the Empress, but more importantly the fleet's expedition resulted in the Empire's first reliable accounts of Argonian culture. The Imperials attempted to settle along the pirate routes and were successful in driving the pirates out of Black Marsh, but the province was largely left alone until its eventual conquest by the [Second Empire](Lore_Second_Empire.md) centuries later.

#### Red Eagle (?b - [1E 1030](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_1030))
[Red Eagle](Lore_Red_Eagle.md), or **Faolan** in the [language of the Reach](Lore_Reach-tongue.md), also known as **King of the Reach**, **Lord of the Reach**, **High Lord of the Reach**, and **Diamond's Doom** was an ancient king who, armed with a flaming sword, rallied his people and drove back the armies of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) in the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md). Over time, accounts of Red Eagle have become distorted and embellished, but they seem to be based on truth: the [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) chronicles of Empress [Hestra](Lore_Hestra.md) mention a rebel leader who was eventually cornered and slain in battle around the year [1E 1030](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_1030), at the cost of a full legion of men. Curiously, stories of a similar king and his legendary blade appear in other ancient myths of the [Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md).

#### Count Regulus Terentius (fl. 3E 433)
[Regulus Terentius](Lore_Regulus_Terentius.md) was the Count of [Bravil](Lore_Bravil.md) during the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md). He came from the respectable Terentius family, a noble family that had resided in Bravil since at least the mid- [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). He had a son, Gellius.

In his younger days, Terentius was a noted tournament champion. During this time, the people of Bravil regarded him as a great and kind man. However, by [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433), power and idleness had spoiled him, and he was disliked by the residents of Bravil, who had come to regard him as a loafer and philanderer. The Count's unpopularity can also be attributed to Gellius, who was considered spoiled and was a [skooma](Lore_Skooma.md) addict. Terentius preferred to spend his time engaged in his pastimes instead of ruling County Bravil, so responsibility for his duties fell to his steward, Dro'Nahrahe.

During Terentius' reign, County Bravil was troubled by the [Renrijra Krin](Lore_Renrijra_Krin.md) insurgency, so he appointed Drels Theran as his special inquisitor in charge of suppressing the insurgents. During the [Oblivion Crisis](Lore_Oblivion_Crisis.md), Terentius believed that High Chancellor [Ocato](Lore_Ocato_of_Firsthold.md) planned to use his position as head of the [Elder Council](Lore_Elder_Council.md) to become emperor. When an Oblivion Gate opened outside of Bravil, he put the city guard on high alert and ordered them to hold the walls. After the [Hero of Kvatch](Lore_Hero_of_Kvatch.md) closed the Oblivion Gate, the Count provided military aid for the defense of [Bruma](Lore_Bruma.md).

#### Regulus Tharn (fl. late 1E)
[Regulus Tharn](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Regulus_Tharn) was an [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) member of the royal [House Tharn](Lore_Tharn.md) of [Cheydinhal](Lore_Cheydinhal.md), ancestor and descendant of numerous famous figures. He was one of many members of the Tharn family who served nobly and well under the [Emperors](Lore_Tamrielic_Emperors.md) of the [Reman Dynasty](Lore_Reman_Empire.md). He was paramount in reviving the tradition of the [Imperial Battlemages](Lore_Imperial_Battlemages.md) during his times.

#### Relmyna Verenim (fl. 3E 433)
[Relmyna Verenim](Lore_Relmyna_Verenim.md) was a [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) resident of the [Shivering Isles](Lore_Shivering_Isles.md) at the end of the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md). She was originally from [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md), which is where she discovered the so-called "Sixth Element": [Flesh](Lore_Elements.md#Flesh). She was expelled from the [Mages Guild](Lore_Mages_Guild.md) due to the extreme nature of her [flesh magic](Lore_Flesh_Magic.md) experiments. [Sheogorath](Lore_Sheogorath.md) invited her to his Realm, where she could continue her research free of scrutiny. Because of this, she developed a passionate—and obsessive—love for the Daedric Prince.

Relmyna was responsible for creating the first [Gatekeeper](Lore_Gatekeeper.md). After many failed attempts she accomplished this by using the magical ingredients of the [Gardens of Flesh and Bone](Lore_Gardens_of_Flesh_and_Bone.md) to give life to several enchanted body parts stitched together to form a body. Using Sheogorath's divine madness as the seed, Relmyna birthed the creature. Her tears and the bones of a previous Gatekeeper were used to slay the creature in [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433).

After the death of her "child", Relmyna and her apprentice Nanette Don retired to her home, the ruins of [Xaselm](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Xaselm). There she resumed her study on the nature of Pain. Later that year, the Fringe was invaded by the Forces of Order. Sheogorath's [Champion](Lore_Hero_of_Kvatch.md) was sent to help Relmyna construct another Gatekeeper. The sorceress was hesitant at first due to the Champion's direct involvement with the death of the original. Relmyna and the Champion created the new Gatekeeper using a Daedric binding ritual, which helped to contain the Order which had taken over the Fringe.

#### Relonikiv ([Dawn Era](Lore_Dawn_Era.md) - [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201))
[Relonikiv](Lore_Relonikiv.md) was a [dragon](Lore_Dragon.md) whose name meant "Dominate-Enlightenment" in the [Dragon Language](Lore_Dragon_Language.md).

Little is known about Relonikiv's past. At a certain point in history, he swore allegiance to [Miraak](Lore_Miraak.md), though whether he did so willingly or was compelled through Miraak's mastery of [Thu'um](Lore_Thu%27um.md) is unknown.

In [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201), the [Last Dragonborn](Lore_Hero.md) traveled to [Apocrypha](Lore_Apocrypha.md) to challenge Miraak. Through the use of the [Thu'um](Lore_Thu%27um.md), they swayed a dragon [Sahrotaar](Lore_Sahrotaar.md) to betray Miraak. He helped them to reach the First Dragonborn on the summit of Apocrypha where the Last Dragonborn confronted Miraak. It was there where he called the mighty dragons Relonikiv and [Kruziikrel](Lore_Kruziikrel.md) to aid him in the battle. During the fight Miraak absorbed Relonikiv's soul to regain vitality, killing him in the process. Having had his soul devoured by another dovah, Relonikiv was killed permanently and cannot be raised again.

#### Emperor [Reman](Lore_Reman.md) (?b - [1E 2762](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_2762))
[Reman Cyrodiil](Lore_Reman.md) (sometimes enumerated as **Reman I**), called the **Worldly God**, **Reman Born-a-Man**, and **Old Reman**, was a cultural god-hero of the [Second Empire](Lore_Second_Empire.md), founder of the [Reman Dynasty](Lore_Reman_Dynasty.md), and the greatest hero of the [Akaviri Trouble](Lore_First_Era_Wars.md#First_Akaviri_Invasion) of [1E 2703](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_2703). His name, Reman, means "Light of Man". Contrary to popular belief, the province of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) was not named after him; rather, he adopted the ancient [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) name for the province, Cyrod, as his surname.

#### Emperor [Reman II](Lore_Reman_II.md) ([1E 2786](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_2786) - [1E 2843](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_2843))
[Reman II](Lore_Reman_II.md) was the third emperor of the [Second Empire](Lore_Second_Empire.md) and [Reman Dynasty](Lore_Reman_Dynasty.md). He was born in [1E 2786](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_2786). He assumed the throne in [1E 2804](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_2804), following the deposition of his predecessor, Emperor [Kastav](Lore_Kastav.md).

Said to be a master tactician, he frequently studied records of the battles he fought. When he conquered new territory for the [Empire](Lore_Second_Empire.md), he carefully established rule and avoided causing too much disruption to local customs, traditions, and particularly to established trade. He gathered advisors from each province and focused on his people more than many emperors ever had. As a result, [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) culture spread across [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md), not through forced assimilation but free will as citizens came to accept and support the Empire by reaping the benefits of free trade, stability, and the development of improved infrastructure. For many years, peace prevailed throughout Tamriel, and many consider his reign to be the golden age of the Second Empire.

#### Emperor Reman III ([1E 2863](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_2863) - [1E 2920](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_2920))
[Reman III](Lore_Reman_III.md) was the fifth and last [emperor](Lore_Cyrodilic_Emperors.md) of the [Second Empire](Lore_Second_Empire.md) and [Reman Dynasty](Lore_Reman_Dynasty.md). His forty-three-year reign was marked by the long and bloody conflict known as the [Four-Score War](Lore_Four-Score_War.md) against [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). In [1E 2920](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_2920), Reman III negotiated a treaty with [Vivec](Lore_Vivec.md), one of the god-kings of Morrowind, to end the war; however, the Emperor was assassinated by the [Morag Tong](Lore_Morag_Tong.md) before it could be signed and ratified. His death marked the end of the Reman Dynasty, and only sixteen days after his assassination, his potentate [Versidue-Shaie](Lore_Versidue-Shaie.md) proclaimed the end of the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md) and the beginning of the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md).

#### King Renwic (?b - c. 2E 300)
[Renwic](Lore_Renwic.md) was the last [Breton](Lore_Breton.md) King of [Betony](Lore_Betony.md) prior to the [Seamount Clan](Lore_Seamount_Clan.md)'s conquest of the island around the fourth century of the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). During the Seamount Clan's invasion of Betony, Renwic attempted to use an [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) relic to defeat the invaders, but when he summoned its power, he realized that it demanded souls, a price he was unwilling to pay. Ultimately, he was killed by the chief of the Seamount Clan, Yzzgol, and the [Orcs](Lore_Orc.md) took control of Betony, renaming it Betnikh.

#### Reynir (fl. late Merethic Era)
[Reynir](Lore_Reynir.md), also known as **Reynir the Destroyer**, was a great Atmoran warrior who lived in [Saarthal](Lore_Saarthal.md) around the time of [Ysgramor](Lore_Ysgramor.md) in the Merethic Era. He was said to have survived the [Night of Tears](Lore_Night_of_Tears.md) and sailed back to Skyrim with the [Five Hundred Companions](Lore_Five_Hundred_Companions.md) on the ship commanded by [Ylgar](Lore_Ylgar.md), son of Ysgramor. After he died, he was interred in the Hall of the Dead beneath [Windhelm](Lore_Windhelm.md).

During the mid-Second Era, the priests who tended to his crypt noted that he had risen as a powerful Draugr and retained some semblance of his intellect in life, but his humanity has been subsumed by the madness. As such he was no less than a hateful, undead creature who delighted in the suffering of others. As such, a warning was announced to not disturb his slumber. Despite this he was briefly awoken when the Vestige ventured into the crypts in search of Lodur's Crown, but was ultimately defeated.

#### Armiger Rhina ([1E 954](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_954) - [1E 980](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_980))
**Armiger** [Rhina](Lore_Rhina.md) was a [Redguard](Lore_Redguard.md) member of the [Order of Diagna](Lore_Order_of_Diagna.md) who spent her entire twenty-six years fighting the [Orcs](Lore_Orcs.md) during the Siege of [Orsinium](Lore_Orsinium.md), where her sacrifice was said to have brought the Redguards victory. She was remembered as one of the people who changed the course of Redguard history.

#### Rhogar the Destroyer (fl. before 2E 582)
[Rhogar the Destroyer](Lore_Rhogar_the_Destroyer.md) was a figure present in legends and myths of the [Orc](Lore_Orc.md) branch of the cult of [Trinimac](Lore_Trinimac.md). Rhogar features in the Orsimer religious scripture *[The Book of the Warrior God](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Book_of_the_Warrior_God)* in the passage devoted to the heroine [Vaia](Lore_Vaia.md), the *[Vaia's Courage](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:The_Scroll_of_Vaia)*. Rhogar is also present in another passage from the same book,<sup>[[nb 2]](#intnote_nb2)</sup> and in the text by [Venerable Uugus](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Venerable_Uugus).

Rhogar was said to wield a powerful enchanted hammer. Using its power they shattered entire armies. At a certain point, Rhogar stood against Vaia, who wielded a simple shield of the [ash](Lore_Ash.md) wood. Despite Rhogars' power and superior [weapon](Lore_Weapons.md), Vaia stood her ground as the hammer fell. Holding her shield above her head and believing that Trinimac watched over her, her resolve was not dampened. After a loud crash, Rhogars' mighty hammer was shattered and the small wooden shield survived and managed to repel the blow. Over the ages, the shield became a symbol. Vaia's Golden Ash - the image of the ash tree, became the symbol of the strength, heritage, and unity of the Orsimer people.

#### Ria Silmane (?b - [3E 389](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_389))
[Ria Silmane](Lore_Ria_Silmane.md) ([/ˈ ˈriːə sˈɪlme͡ɪn/](https://www.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:IPA/English) ***ree** -AH* *sillmain* Link ⏵) was the apprentice of [Jagar Tharn](Lore_Jagar_Tharn.md), who sought to disappear and impersonate [Emperor](Lore_Cyrodilic_Emperors.md) [Uriel Septim VII](Lore_Uriel_Septim_VII.md). To avoid suspicion of his own disappearance, Tharn convinced the Emperor that he was going to take a leave of absence to pursue [magical studies](Lore_Magic.md), and the [Elder Council](Lore_Elder_Council.md) to allow Silmane to take his place as the [Imperial Battle Mage of Tamriel](Lore_Imperial_Battlemage_of_Tamriel.md). After Tharn accomplished this goal, he murdered Ria with the [Staff of Chaos](Lore_Staff_of_Chaos.md) when she attempted to warn the Elder Council of his plot. However, her [ghost](Lore_Ghost.md) appeared to [King](Lore_Wayrest_(kingdom).md#Known_Rulers) [Eadwyre](Lore_Eadwyre.md) in a dream and revealed to him that the true Emperor had been kidnapped by Tharn and imprisoned in an [alternate dimension](Lore_Oblivion.md).

#### Rid-Thar-ri'Datta (fl. 2E 311 - 326)
[Rid-Thar-ri'Datta](Lore_Rid-Thar-ri%27Datta.md) was the [Mane](Lore_Mane.md) of [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md) during the early-mid [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). Rid-Thar-ri'Datta is referred to as the first Mane, a spiritual leader of Elsweyr that paved the way for a moon-based culture and veneration for the deity of cosmic order, the [Riddle'Thar](Lore_Riddle%27Thar.md).

#### Legate Rikke (fl. 4E 201)
[Rikke](Lore_Rikke.md) was a [Nord](Lore_Nord.md)<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_Creature)</sup> legate of the [Imperial Legion](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md) during the [Stormcloak Rebellion](Lore_Stormcloak_Rebellion.md). The Legate followed in the footsteps of her parents, who were also Legionnaires. During the [Great War](Lore_Great_War.md), she fought side-by-side with [Ulfric Stormcloak](Lore_Ulfric_Stormcloak.md) and many others who would later become [Stormcloaks](Lore_Stormcloaks.md). Though she came to believe Ulfric was a self-serving ego-maniac, she once counted him and many of his followers as friends. She held a great deal of anger toward Ulfric, as she believed the [Empire](Lore_Empire.md) was the best chance at victory against the [Thalmor](Lore_Thalmor.md), but also deeply saddened by his decisions. She continued to worship [Talos](Lore_Talos.md) privately despite the [White-Gold Concordat](Lore_White-Gold_Concordat.md).

During the Stormcloak Rebellion, she was the chief lieutenant of General [Tullius](Lore_Tullius.md), who ran the Empire's campaign. She was his closest adviser and strategist, and often gave him insights on Nordic culture that he, a [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) -born [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md), did not know or fully appreciate. They had disagreements, but she believed Tullius was the best hope for [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) and the Empire. Rikke had a great many duties, including local recruiting in [Solitude](Lore_Solitude.md), though she frequently found herself fighting, coordinating scouts, and manipulating enemy intelligence on the front lines.

#### High Kinlord Rilis IV (fl. before 2E 582)
[Rilis IV](Lore_Rilis_IV.md) was an [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md) noble that ruled the city of [Firsthold](Lore_Firsthold.md) in ancient history as a member of House Rilis. Much like the rest of his family, he is described as a proud warrior. Prior to its abandonment after [Rilis XII](Lore_Rilis_XII.md)'s reign, Rilis IV and his family lived in [Castle Rilis](Lore_Castle_Rilis.md) just northeast of the city and on the coast.

#### High Kinlord Rilis XII (?b - [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582))
[Rilis XII](Lore_Rilis_XII.md) was an [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md) noble from the early-mid [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). In life, he was the High Kinlord of [Firsthold](Lore_Firsthold.md) and ruler of the island, [Auridon](Lore_Auridon.md). Early in his reign, he was seen as a hero among his people and an instrument to bring peace to the island. Among his most recognized actions at the time was giving [Vanus Galerion](Lore_Vanus_Galerion.md) the opportunity to start the first [Mages Guild](Lore_Mages_Guild.md) in his city. Later in life however, he developed a thirst for power that would eventually bring about his downfall.

#### Saint Rilms the Barefooted (fl. before 3E 427)
**Saint Rilms** is the [Dunmeri](Lore_Dunmer.md) patron of Pilgrims and Beggars. Saint Rilms gave away her shoes, then dressed and appeared as a beggar to better acquaint herself with the poor.<sup>[[6]](#cite_note-LOTS-6)</sup> Her [shoes](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Shoes_of_St._Rilms) are now a prized relic of the [Tribunal Temple](Lore_Tribunal_Temple.md).<sup>[[7]](#cite_note-Morrowind-7)</sup>

#### High Magistrate Rinwaray (fl. 2E 582)
[High Magistrate Rinwaray](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Rinwaray) of the [Divine Prosecution](Lore_Divine_Prosecution.md) (posing under the identity of **Penewen** with an enchanted jeweled brooch) manipulated [Telenger the Artificer](Lore_Telenger_the_Artificer.md) to use his teleportation device, the [Hyperagonal Locational Determinator](Lore_Hyperagonal_Locational_Determinator.md), to teleport her into the [Clockwork City](Lore_Clockwork_City.md). There she planned to find [Seht's Affect Inducer](Lore_Seht%27s_Affect_Inducer.md), a magical device originally entrusted to [Barilzar](Lore_Barilzar.md) that can manipulate a person's emotions. She planned to use it on [Proxy Queen Alwinarwe](Lore_Proxy_Queen_Alwinarwe.md) for her own political gain and to revert the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isle.md) to isolationism. Her efforts were stopped when [Razum-dar](Lore_Razum-dar.md) caught wind of her plot and followed her tracks through the Clockwork City, the [Evergloam](Lore_Evergloam.md), [Artaeum](Lore_Artaeum.md) (accidentally), and eventually caught her in [Alinor](Lore_Alinor_(city).md) where he managed to subdue her and now awaits the Queen's judgment.

#### Tutor Riparius (?b - ?d)
[Tutor Riparius](Lore_Tutor_Riparius.md) is a being created by [Demiprince](Lore_Demiprince.md) [Fa-Nuit-Hen](Lore_Fa-Nuit-Hen.md) to tend for his needs. He assumes the form of a humanoid Daedra similar to Hen, though he also was referred to as a factotum. He assists the Demiprince with his memory issues when he dreams and physically changes as with his requirements, even creating clones of himself.<sup>[[8]](#cite_note-8)</sup> He possesses advanced [scrying](Lore_Sight.md) capabilities, having knowledge of [Tiber Septim](Lore_Tiber_Septim.md)'s ascension centuries before it occurred.<sup>[[9]](#cite_note-9)</sup>

#### Ri'saad (fl. [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201))
[Ri'saad](Lore_Ri%27saad.md) is the leader and patriarch of the [Khajiit Caravans](Lore_Khajiit_Caravans.md), a small syndicate of itinerant merchants based in [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). Ri'saad is an opportunist; originally from Elsweyr, he sought to make a profit in Skyrim during the [Civil War](Lore_Skyrim_Civil_War.md) and the [Dragon Crisis](Lore_Return_of_the_Dragons.md). All of the Khajiit caravaneers in Skyrim answer to Ri'saad, who is seen as a kind patriarch. He is the richest of the three caravan merchants and has exclusive contracts among Skyrim's wealthiest cities. He was a known owner of the [Daedric](Lore_Daedric.md) [artifact](Lore_Artifacts.md), the [Ring of Khajiit](Lore_Ring_of_Khajiit.md). He is married to Atahbah, who travels with his caravan. His honorific -ri is rare as it is only used for great leaders and highly respected people among the Khajiit.

Ri'saad has previously assisted the author [Adonato Leotelli](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Adonato_Leotelli). In [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201), Ri'saad sought out help from the [Last Dragonborn](Lore_Last_Dragonborn.md) on several occasions. Most notably, he once explained that his caravan had been beset by two strange new groups of bandits wearing golden and dark armor. This led to the Dragonborn uncovering the plot of the mad mage [Thoron](Lore_Thoron.md). Ri'saad rewarded the Dragonborn after they took care of the bandits. Additionally, Ri'saad and the Dragonborn secured an alliance between the Khajiit Caravans and the [Thieves Guild](Lore_Thieves_Guild.md). Ri'saad himself may have assisted the Dragonborn by rooting out a [Thalmor](Lore_Thalmor.md) assassin who was after an associate of the Dragonborn, [Malborn](Lore_Malborn.md), inadvertently saving Malborn's life.

#### Rishaal Tamir (immortal)
[Rishaal Tamir](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Rishaal_Tamir) is the Daedra Lieutenant of Scamp Clan (also referred to as "Dagon's Loyal Troops"), and appears in the form of a small humanoid girl. Her [incantatory protonymic](Lore_Nymic.md) was **Peytifar**, based upon [Roht](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Roht).

During the Daedric invasion of the [Imperial Battlespire](Lore_Battlespire.md), Tamir was among the Daedra commanders whose armies were raiding the facility. There was much infighting between the four competing factions of the occupation, but Tamir's goal was to acquire a piece of the Voidguide for the leader of all of the invading clans, [High Lord Sumeer Jabran](Lore_Sumeer_Jabran.md). During this time Tamir herself was stationed as the Teleport Guard at the Battlespire Caitiff Teleportal, a position where she commanded her [Scamps](Lore_Scamp.md) to seek the missing voidpieces, likely unaware they had been the cause of the Voidguide's initial splintering in the first place. Here she struck a deal with the [Apprentice](Lore_Apprentice.md), who brought her a recovered voidpiece in exchange for a Zyr [Sigil of Entry](Lore_Sigil.md) which originally belonged to Zenaida Nacarra, allowing the mortal passage through the Teleportal. After receiving the voidpiece, Rishaal teleported from her post and promptly delivered the crucial item to Sumeer, who in turn tasked one of his servants with its safekeeping.

#### Rislav Larich ([1E 448](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_448) - ?d)
[Rislav Larich](Lore_Rislav_Larich.md), better known as **Rislav the Righteous**, was born in Skingrad in [1E 448](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_448), the eighth child and fourth son of Queen Lynada and King Mhorus of [Skingrad](Lore_Skingrad.md). He is believed to have led the typical life of a [Colovian](Lore_Colovia.md) prince. He married Belene, the daughter of King Justinius of [Kvatch](Lore_Kvatch.md), becoming a **Count of Kvatch**, presumably to cement peace between the kingdoms. In [1E 478](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_478), a plague passed through [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) and decimated the royal family of Skingrad; in the end, only Rislav and his older brother Dorald, a priest of [Marukh](Lore_Marukh.md), survived. Dorald's first act was to cede the kingdom to the [Alessian Empire](Lore_Alessian_Empire.md), which incensed Rislav. He led a small band of cavalry from Kvatch to Skingrad, where they entered the city without conflict (as the guards of Skingrad were also offended by Dorald's act). In the castle courtyard, Rislav denounced Dorald and beheaded him with one stroke, and he was quickly crowned as the new **King of Skingrad**.

However, Emperor [Gorieus](Lore_Gorieus.md) believed this did not revoke Dorald's action, and rode to Skingrad with a massive army to claim the city. When they arrived, Rislav famously told the Emperor that his party was too large to be accommodated, and that next time, he should write before he comes. A battle quickly ensued, which the Colovian forces won handily thanks to superior tactics. Gorieus' crippled army was forced to retreat, and this dramatic defeat proved to be the beginning of the end of the Alessian Empire.

#### Rites Matron (fl. [2E 82](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_82) - [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582))
The [Rites Matron](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Rites_Matron) of the [Spiritblood Clan](Lore_Spiritblood_Clan.md) was a [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md) [witch](Lore_Witches.md) and overseer of the Vateshran's Rites performed in the ancient caves of the [Vateshran Hollows](Lore_Vateshran_Hollows.md), which served as the clan's coming of age trials, as well as the trials for the chieftains. Together with her [Hag](Lore_Hag.md) sisters Binder in the Dark and Lamenter of the Slain they played an essential role in preserving and upholding traditions of the clan.

#### Battlemaster Rivyn (fl. 2E 582)
[Battlemaster Rivyn](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Rivyn) was the [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) head of the [Circle of Champions](Lore_Circle_of_Champions.md), a guild created to gather the greatest fighters in Tamriel for bloodthirsty sport.

#### Rjorn (fl. 2E)
Rjorn was a [Nord](Lore_Nord.md) musician in the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). He was a famous war drummer that traveled often to write stories and his drum was a valued artifact among bards. At some point in time, he disappeared from the public eye and no one knew where he died.<sup>[[10]](#cite_note-SRGiraud-10)</sup> In [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201), someone found the drum in Halldir's Cairn, a cave near the provincial border in [Falkreath Hold](Lore_Falkreath_Hold.md) and the [Bards College](Lore_Bards_College.md) sent one of their members to retrieve it. The drum was brought to the college's dean of history, [Giraud Gemane](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Giraud_Gemane), who had been looking for the drum for twenty years.<sup>[[11]](#cite_note-SRRjorn-11)</sup>

#### Ansei Rok'dun the Flame (fl. First Era - 2E 582)
**Yokeda** [Rok'dun](Lore_Rok%27dun.md) **the Flame** was a [Yokudan](Lore_Yokudan.md) [Ansei](Lore_Ansei.md) of the first rank. He held a distinguished position among The Four, an esteemed group of elite warriors distinguished during that period, and took a notable role in the early Yokudan invasion of the [Nedic](Lore_Nede.md) homelands.

#### High Queen Roleke (fl. late 1E)
[Roleke](Lore_Roleke.md), also known as **"Head-Rolling" Roleke**, was a High Queen of [Solitude](Lore_Solitude.md) during the late [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md). She was known to be a bloodthirsty ruler. During her reign, she married numerous times, going "through a succession of many spouses". At some point during her rule, she purportedly decapitated over twenty rebels in less than five minutes, with some sources claiming that one of her spouses was among the executed.

#### Mastercraft Mediator Rolis Hlaalu (fl. 2E 582)
[Rolis Hlaalu](Lore_Rolis_Hlaalu.md) (also occasionally referred to simply by his initials, **R. H.**) was a [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) mastercraft mediator, trader, and merchant, renowned for delivering rare and exceptionally high-quality goods to an elite clientele. He was also a prominent member of [House Hlaalu](Lore_House_Hlaalu.md) and a published author.

#### Countess Rona Hassildor (?b - [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433))
Countess Rona Hassildor of [Skingrad](Lore_Skingrad.md) was an [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) and the wife of Count [Janus Hassildor](Lore_Janus_Hassildor.md), ruler of [County Skingrad](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:County_Skingrad) at the end of the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md). Like her husband, Rona was stricken with [vampirism](Lore_Vampirism.md), but unlike her husband she could not adjust to her new condition. Instead, she refused to feed on blood and gradually slipped into a state of coma, unable to die due to the immortality granted to her by her [undead](Lore_Undead.md) state. She was left to rest in a hidden passage within Castle Skingrad known as the Chamber of the Lost, where she remained for around fifty years. Circa [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433), Janus tasked the former [Glenmoril](Lore_Glenmoril_Wyrd.md) [witch](Lore_Witch.md) named Melisande with curing Rona of her vampirism, thereby allowing her to finally die. Through magical means, Melisande revived Rona just long enough for the two to say their final farewell and for her to drink the cure. After many years of refusing to feed, her weakened state caused Rona to immediately perish upon regaining her mortality.<sup>[[12]](#cite_note-VC-12)</sup><sup>[[13]](#cite_note-Janus-13)</sup>

#### Saint Roris the Martyr (?b - 3E 395)
[Saint Roris the Martyr](Lore_Roris.md) is the [Dunmeri](Lore_Dunmer.md) patron [saint](Lore_Temple_Saints.md) of Furnishers and Caravaners. Roris was captured by [Argonians](Lore_Argonian.md) before the [Arnesian War](Lore_Arnesian_War.md), and he was subsequently tortured by Argonian sorcerers for not renouncing his faith in the [Tribunal](Lore_Tribunal.md). His death was the cause of the Arnesian War as the Dunmer wanted justice and vengeance. Roris was later canonized by the Tribunal, and shrines to him could be found in Tribunal temples. He was the most recent saint until [Jiub](Lore_Jiub.md)'s canonization. His [robe](Lore_Robe_of_St._Roris.md) is now a prized relic of the [Tribunal Temple](Lore_Tribunal_Temple.md).

#### Rowley Eardwulf (fl. 3E 433)
A [Breton](Lore_Breton.md) [vampire](Lore_Vampirism.md) and former member of the [Crimson Scars](Lore_Crimson_Scars.md), a [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md) vampiric subfaction within the [Dark Brotherhood](Lore_Dark_Brotherhood.md). Eardwulf survived the [Purification](Lore_Purification.md) of his fellow Scars and was subsequently contacted by [Greywyn Blenwyth](Lore_Greywyn_Blenwyth.md), the only other survivor. Following his death, Blenwyth bequeathed his lair at [Deepscorn Hollow](Lore_Deepscorn_Hollow.md) to the [Hero of Kvatch](Lore_Hero_of_Kvatch.md) and left instructions on how to contact Eardwulf, who agreed to restore the complex to its former glory.<sup>[[14]](#cite_note-14)</sup><sup>[[15]](#cite_note-15)</sup>

#### Chief Rowolan (fl. 1E)
[Chief Rowolan](Lore_Rowolan.md) was a legendary figure from the oral tradition of the [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md). He was featured prominently in *The Song of [Gwyna](Lore_Gwyna.md)*, an epic poem told by Reachfolk [Vateshrans](Lore_Vateshrans.md) throughout generations in numerous different forms. He was a powerful warrior and descended from the demigoddess [Dearola](Lore_Dearola.md).

#### Rozaba af-Nizhadal (fl. before 2E 582)
[Rozaba af-Nizhadal](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Rozaba_af-Nizhadal) was a famous [Redguard](Lore_Redguard.md) [conjuration](Lore_Conjuration.md) mage. She was known to conjure and ride [Iron Atronach](Lore_Iron_Atronach.md) [camels](Lore_Camel.md) across the deserts of Hammerfell. She referred to these creatures as "glass-treaders", as the atronach's scorching feet left behind glass tracks wherever she rode.

By [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), the art of conjuring Iron Atronachs shaped like camels was popularized among conjuration mages. At that time adventurers in Hammerfell were still finding glass tracks from where the atronach's scorching feet seared the sand.

#### Master Rrvenk (fl. 2E 582)
[Master Rrvenk](Lore_Rrvenk.md) was a Daedric sage and master of the Eleventh Force, the Change. Despite his form of a [Banekin](Lore_Banekin.md) he was known to be wise and thoughtful. He is a well-known sage among the Daedra of the Deadlands, though only a few besides his disciples have ever seen him because he is always in motion. Mortals and Daedra alike sought his knowledge and advice, which he shared freely, although only for those who managed to find him, which is a troublesome task given that he never ceases to be in motion. He can read the flow of the Eleventh Force with such clarity that he's practically precognitive, though he does not attempt to alter its course.

#### Ruma Camoran (3E ? - [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433))
[Ruma Camoran](Lore_Ruma_Camoran.md) was a powerful [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md) mage and the daughter of [Mankar Camoran](Lore_Mankar_Camoran.md). Along with her brother, [Raven](Lore_Raven_Camoran.md), she served as a lieutenant in their father's cult, the [Mythic Dawn](Lore_Mythic_Dawn.md) —a group of [Mehrunes Dagon](Lore_Mehrunes_Dagon.md) worshippers responsible for the assassination of [Uriel Septim VII](Lore_Uriel_Septim_VII.md) in [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433) as part of their attempt to bring about the destruction of [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md). As a daughter of Mankar Camoran and therefore likely a granddaughter of [Camoran Usurper](Lore_Camoran_Usurper.md) she had ties to the royal [Camoran Dynasty](Lore_Camoran_Dynasty.md) of [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md).

#### Rusio Olo (fl. 2E)
[Rusio Olo](Lore_Rusio_Olo.md) was the third pillar of the [Order of the Hour](Lore_Order_of_the_Hour.md)'s original complement of warrior-priests. During his tenure, he was instrumental in ending the [Order of the Black Worm](Lore_Order_of_the_Black_Worm.md)'s infestation of [Kvatch](Lore_Kvatch.md) in [2E 437](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_437). He was said to have dispatched eight cultists and their leader singlehandedly.

A statue to Rusio was later made in Knightsgrave to his memory as one of the Order's founding members.

#### Ryain Direnni (fl. 1E 461 - 482)
[Ryain Direnni](Lore_Ryain_Direnni.md) was one of the members of the influential [Altmeri](Lore_Altmer.md) Clan [Direnni](Lore_Direnni.md). He was a powerful land-owner and commander, who was known for purchasing the [Isle of Balfiera](Lore_Isle_of_Balfiera.md) for the Clan Direnni and conquering all of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md) and large parts of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md) and [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md).

#### Kinlord Ryethamil Corelanya (1E ? - [1E 2631](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_2631))
**Kinlord** [Ryethamil Corelanya](Lore_Ryethamil_Corelanya.md) was the leader of the [Corelanya Clan](Lore_Corelanya_Clan.md) in the early years of the 27th century of the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md). He was also the leader of the College of Tomes of the Collegium Praxis.

#### Rynandor the Bold (?b - [4E](Lore_Fourth_Era.md) ?d)
Former [seer](Lore_Sight.md) -mage of the [Summerset Isle](Lore_Summerset_Isle.md). Rynandor was one of the few survivors of the collapse of the [Crystal Tower](Lore_Crystal_Tower.md) during the [Oblivion Crisis](Lore_Oblivion_Crisis.md) and was one of the leaders of its defense and thus responsible for the death of many [daedra](Lore_Daedra.md) during their successful attempt to raze the tower. Shortly after the Oblivion Crisis had subsided, he showed distrust towards the [Thalmor](Lore_Thalmor.md) when they claimed to be the ones who rid the Summerset Isle of the daedra horde. Due to the Thalmor's wide public support at this point in the Summerset Isle, they were able to denounce and exile him. Rynandor met a violent end shortly after his departure from Summerset Isle, likely at the hands of the Thalmor.<sup>[[16]](#cite_note-RT-16)</sup>

#### Rythe Lythandas (fl. 3E 433 - 4E 201)
Rythe Lythandas of Dar-Ei<sup>[[17]](#cite_note-LOS-17)</sup> was a famous artist who lived in [Cheydinhal](Lore_Cheydinhal.md), known for his lifelike paintings of the [Great Forest](Lore_Great_Forest.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). He inherited the [Brush of Truepaint](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Brush_of_Truepaint) from his father, which is the reason for his success. He was married to Tivela Lythandas. Circa [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433), a thief stole the brush from him and he became stuck in the Painted World. He once owned the enchanted Apron of Adroitness, which he gave to the [Hero of Kvatch](Lore_Hero_of_Kvatch.md) in return for retrieving the brush and saving him from the Painted World.<sup>[[18]](#cite_note-ABWD-18)</sup> He survived the sack of Cheydinhal by the undead army of [Umbriel](Lore_Umbriel.md), and had returned to live in the city by [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201). At that time, he was the sole provider of [Painted Troll Fat](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Painted_Troll), a rare alchemical ingredient.<sup>[[19]](#cite_note-Skyrim-19)</sup>

#### Rythe Verano (?b - 2E 582)
[Grandmaster Rythe Verano](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Rythe_Verano) was one of the last of the [Morag Tong](Lore_Morag_Tong.md) who was a member before the [Potentate](Lore_Akaviri_Potentate.md) assassinations, which would force the guild to go into hiding. He worked for centuries at restoring the reputation of the Morag Tong with the [Great Houses](Lore_Great_Houses.md), getting them to accept them once again as a legitimate organization, and would eventually become the Tong's grandmaster. He would be one of the people who were plotting within the Morag Tong. The plot involved a coup of the current Tong, and a list of goals, which if achieved, would transform the Tong into more than a mere league of assassins, it would make them powerful enough to allow them to replace the heads of state that were once able to force them to go into hiding. The plot was known as the Simulacrum Rubric, named after one of the items they sought to obtain, Sotha Sil's Simulacrum Rubric. It was orchestrated by him and seven other influential members of the Tong who called themselves the Seven Secretives.

## References
1. [^](#cite_ref-1) [*Tamrielic Lore*](Lore_Tamrielic_Lore.md) — [Yagrum Bagarn](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Yagrum_Bagarn)
2. [^](#cite_ref-AJ_2-0) [*Assassin's Journal*](Skyrim_Assassin%27s_Journal.md) — [Assassin](Skyrim_Assassin_(Bow_of_Shadows).md)
3. [^](#cite_ref-3) [*The Wolf Queen*](Lore_The_Wolf_Queen.md) — [Waughin Jarth](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Waughin_Jarth)
4. [^](#cite_ref-RTHATH_4-0) [*Redguards, History and Heroes*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Redguards,_History_and_Heroes) — [Destri Melarg](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Destri_Melarg)
5. [^](#cite_ref-EGTNBat M_5-0) [*The Improved Emperor's Guide to Tamriel: Hammerfell*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:The_Improved_Emperor%27s_Guide_to_Tamriel_Hammerfell) — [Flaccus Terentius](Lore_Flaccus_Terentius.md), [2E 581](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_581)
6. [^](#cite_ref-LOTS_6-0) [*Lives of the Saints*](Lore_Lives_of_the_Saints.md) — [Tribunal Temple](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Tribunal_Temple)
7. [^](#cite_ref-Morrowind_7-0) Events of *[Morrowind](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Morrowind:Morrowind)*
8. [^](#cite_ref-8) [Tutor Riparius](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Tutor_Riparius)' dialogue in [ESO](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Online): *[Orsinium](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Orsinium_(DLC))*
9. [^](#cite_ref-9) [*Lord Fa-Nuit-Hen and Tutor Riparius Answer Your Questions 2*](Lore_Lord_Fa-Nuit-Hen_and_Tutor_Riparius_Answer_Your_Questions_2.md) — [Fa-Nuit-Hen](Lore_Fa-Nuit-Hen.md) and Tutor Riparius
10. [^](#cite_ref-SRGiraud_10-0) [Giraud Gemane](Skyrim_Giraud_Gemane.md)'s dialogue in *[Skyrim](Skyrim_Skyrim.md)*
11. [^](#cite_ref-SRRjorn_11-0) [Rjorn's Drum](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Skyrim:Rjorn%27s_Drum) faction quest in *[Skyrim](Skyrim_Skyrim.md)*
12. [^](#cite_ref-VC_12-0) [Vampire Cure](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Vampire_Cure) quest in *[Oblivion](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Oblivion)*
13. [^](#cite_ref-Janus_13-0) [Janus Hassildor](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Janus_Hassildor)'s dialogue in *[Oblivion](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Oblivion)*
14. [^](#cite_ref-14) [*Greywyn's Journal*](Lore_Greywyn%27s_Journal.md) — [Greywyn](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Greywyn)
15. [^](#cite_ref-15) [Rowley Eardwulf](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Rowley_Eardwulf) in *[Oblivion](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Oblivion)*
16. [^](#cite_ref-RT_16-0) [*Rising Threat*](Lore_Rising_Threat.md) — [Lathenil of Sunhold](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Lathenil_of_Sunhold)
17. [^](#cite_ref-LOS_17-0) [*Lord of Souls*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Books:Lord_of_Souls) — [Greg Keyes](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/General:Greg_Keyes)
18. [^](#cite_ref-ABWD_18-0) Events of [A Brush with Death](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:A_Brush_with_Death) in *[Oblivion](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Oblivion)*
19. [^](#cite_ref-Skyrim_19-0) [Elgrim](Skyrim_Elgrim.md)'s dialogue in *[Skyrim](Skyrim_Skyrim.md)*

**Note**: The following references are considered to be [unofficial sources](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/General:Unofficial_Lore). They are included to round off this article and may not be authoritative or conclusive.