# Triumphs of a Monarch

| Book Compilation | |
| --- | --- |
| Source: | - [TESO official site](http://www.elderscrollsonline.com/en/misc/leader-profile/daggerfall) |
| Writer | [Lawrence Schick](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/General:Lawrence_Schick) |
| Seen In: | - [Elder Scrolls Online](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Triumphs_of_a_Monarch) |
| Note | |
| This is a compilation of books assembled for easier reading. | |

Triumphs of a Monarch **by His Majesty [King Emeric](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#King_Emeric)** *An autobiographical account of the life of King Emeric of Wayrest*
---

## *[Chapter 3](Lore_Triumphs_of_a_Monarch,_Ch._3.md)*

### Chapter 3: At the Gates of [Daggerfall](Lore_Daggerfall.md)!
For a dozen years after the Battle of Granden Tor, the kingdoms of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md) were at peace, and the merchant ships of [Wayrest](Lore_Wayrest.md), Daggerfall, and Sentinel traded near and far to all the ports of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). In my father's hall of business in Wayrest I learned of the tracking of shipments, the balancing of accounts, and the fluctuation of currencies, but Pierric of Cumberland knew the nature of the world, and he was not content to have his son learn only of the ways of peace and trade. Every morning I sparred with the Cumberland Master of Arms, and every afternoon the weather permitted I rode a warhorse, exercising with the [Menevia](Lore_Menevia.md) Heavy Dragoons. It wasn't just practice: for two months every summer, I traveled as lieutenant of the mounted escort of the [Evermore](Lore_Evermore.md) Caravan, and a half-dozen times we fought off hill bandits, [Goblin](Lore_Goblin.md) raiders, and [Reachman](Lore_Reachman.md) war bands.

I was fortunate to have spent so much time with a hilt in my hand, for in [2E 541](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_541), when I was but twenty, [Durcorach](Lore_Durcorach.md) the Black Drake spread his wings in [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md) and mustered his feral tribesmen to war. Erupting from their mountain lairs like ants from a kicked anthill, the Reachmen howled down into [Bangkorai](Lore_Bangkorai.md), burning and looting. After only three days' siege, Evermore fell to this horde. The land was pillaged and its people massacred. [Hallin's Stand](Lore_Hallin%27s_Stand.md) held out longer, but eventually it was also overrun by the heathen swarm. Within days, they were across the [Bjoulsae](Lore_Bjoulsae_River.md) and bearing down upon Wayrest.

Then all were grateful that King [Gardner](Lore_Gardner.md) had built new walls and battlements around Wayrest, for the town had grown so that it had burst the bounds of the old walls. Throngs of people swarmed in from the countryside, and soon it seemed that all Menevia, [Gavaudon](Lore_Gavaudon.md), and [Alcaire](Lore_Alcaire.md) were within the city walls. But when the Reachman storm burst upon Wayrest, the crowded conditions seemed a small price to pay for protection from the fury of those [Daedra](Lore_Daedra.md) -loving heathens.

Thus began the epic Siege of Wayrest, when for fifty-seven days and nights the [Bretons](Lore_Breton.md) of Stormhaven manned the walls and repulsed the savage assaults of our terrible opponents. The Reachmen, lacking siege engines, were unable to breach our new walls and take the city by storm, and lacking ships they were unable to blockade our harbor and reduce the city by starvation. Stalemate: was Durcorach's invasion of High Rock at an end?

Indeed, no: your Reachman warrior, though fearless and fierce, is not as a rule very patient. The Black Drake left enough troops in the revetments around our walls to keep us bottled up inside and simply marched off west into [Glenumbra](Lore_Glenumbra.md). Taken by surprise, the newly-independent city-state of [Camlorn](Lore_Camlorn.md) fell and was sacked. And then Durcorach turned his eyes south, toward Daggerfall.

Fortunately, King Gardner heeded my advice to use our merchant ships as transports for the Heavy Dragoons. That was how I found myself at the head of the lances of Wayrest's finest as we charged into the rear of the Reachmen massed before Daggerfall's city gates. All Bretons know how the Black Drake's warriors were caught completely by surprise, how I smote Durcorach and tore down his Unholy Banner. They know of the sortie of the Knights of Daggerfall in which King [Bergamot](Lore_Bergamot_(person).md) finished the work we'd begun, scattering the broken army of heathens like autumn leaves before a gale.

Only one fortnight after that I watched, head bowed, as the kings of Daggerfall, Camlorn, [Shornhelm](Lore_Shornhelm.md), Evermore, and Wayrest signed the first Daggerfall Covenant.

## *[Chapter 6](Lore_Triumphs_of_a_Monarch,_Ch._6.md)*

### Chapter 6: [Ranser's War](Lore_Ranser%27s_War.md) — [Wayrest](Lore_Wayrest.md) Besieged
Ever since my accession to the throne of [Wayrest](Lore_Wayrest.md) in that momentous year of [2E 563](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_563), the question of who should become my queen consort was ever on my—and my advisors'—minds. King [Ranser](Lore_Ranser.md) of [Shornhelm](Lore_Shornhelm.md) had a goodly daughter, Princess [Rayelle](Lore_Rayelle.md), and her hand was offered to me by my brother of Shornhelm both early and often. Indeed, my mind was almost made up to accept the Princess of Shornhelm when, on a visit to [Sentinel](Lore_Sentinel.md), my eyes first beheld the Princess [Maraya](Lore_Maraya.md), daughter of King [Fahara'jad](Lore_Fahara%27jad.md). From that moment, I swore that Wayrest would have no queen but Maraya. Of course, there was another unexpected benefit: as her dowry, she brought a trade agreement between our two states that resulted in great prosperity for all.

King Ranser, alas, was wroth that I had not accepted the hand of his daughter, and he withdrew his ambassador from the court of Wayrest. Although Ranser was invited to my wedding to Maraya in the spring of [566](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_566), like the other kings of the [Covenant](Lore_Daggerfall_Covenant.md), he stayed, seething, in Shornhelm.

I should perhaps have paid more attention to Ranser's choler, but I was so taken with my new bride and trade issues around the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md) that mountainous Shornhelm seemed distant and irrelevant. That mistake almost cost me my throne.

For over a year, Ranser had been quietly mustering his troops and emptying his treasury to hire mercenaries. In Last Seed of [2E 566](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_566), he led his army out of Shornhelm in a lightning strike to the south. Ranser had marched through [Alcaire](Lore_Alcaire.md) and [Menevia](Lore_Menevia.md) almost before we were aware of his approach. The Shornhelm advance guard reached the gates of Wayrest while the local militias we had quickly mustered were still filing through them. This was a moment when history trembled upon a cusp: if the attacking [Oldgate Lancers](Lore_Oldgate_Lancers.md) scattered our militia and took the gate, Wayrest could fall to her attackers within the hour.

Fortunately, I was personally present at the gate, along with my Cumberland Guard. Recognizing the gravity of the situation, I had my bannerman sound the charge. I led the gate guards and my household troops out against the Oldgate Lancers. My men wore full armor, and I, though unarmored, bore at my side the mighty [Orichalc](Lore_Orichalcum.md) Scalpel, an enchanted broadsword of many virtues. The Scalpel, drawn for the first time in anger, flashed and hummed like a blade in a sawmill as we hurled ourselves upon the Lancers. Our enemies, who suddenly found themselves opposed by armored veterans rather than panicky irregulars, were further confounded by the sudden onset of a thunderstorm. Lashed by hail, their horses terrified by lightning, faced with the Orichalc Scalpel scything through their necks and limbs, the vaunted Oldgate Lancers hesitated, then broke and ran, pell-mell, from the gate.

By the time Ranser's main forces arrived on the scene, our troops were all within the walls. The gates were shut up tight, but the King of Shornhelm was undeterred. The city of Wayrest found itself once more under siege, and Ranser, with more craft and foresight than the [Reachman](Lore_Reachman.md) [Durcorach](Lore_Durcorach.md), had come with siege engines in his train.

## *[Chapter 10](Lore_Triumphs_of_a_Monarch,_Ch._10.md)*

### Chapter 10: The Summons of Destiny
And that, dear reader, is my story. You have read now of my carefree youth in Cumberland House, how my father Lord Pierric saw to my training in the crafts of trade, of war, and of state, of my first great victory over [Durcorach](Lore_Durcorach.md) at the gates of [Daggerfall](Lore_Daggerfall.md), and of the vast [Orichalcum](Lore_Orichalcum.md) lode our family struck in the Cumberland Mine. You have heard of the tragic coming of the [Knahaten Flu](Lore_Knahaten_Flu.md), how it took both my father and the entire royal family of [Wayrest](Lore_Wayrest.md), leaving our kingdom leaderless in a time of chaos. You now know with what reluctance I was persuaded to assume the throne of Wayrest. You know of the Halo of Gold that outlined the [Sun](Lore_Sun.md) on the day of my coronation. That omen of approval by the Divines dispelled all my doubts and converted even my most envious rivals into heartfelt allies.

You have now learned the true history of [Ranser's War](Lore_Ranser%27s_War.md), and how it led to the Second, or Greater, [Daggerfall Covenant](Lore_Daggerfall_Covenant.md), embracing the [Redguards](Lore_Redguard.md) of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md) as well as the [Orcs](Lore_Orc.md) of [Orsinium](Lore_Orsinium.md), who came to our aid in our hour of direst need. The free peoples of northwest [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) vowed to stand together against all threats, be they from within or without.

We were soon tested: in [2E 578](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_578) the Emperor [Varen](Lore_Varen_Aquilarios.md), with whom I had concluded a treaty, disappeared from the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md), and Cyrodiil once again fell under the pall of the [Daedric](Lore_Daedra.md) Cabal. In Varen's unexplained absence the "Empress" [Clivia](Lore_Clivia_Tharn.md) —a descendant of the savage [Reachmen](Lore_Reachmen.md) —assumed the [Ruby Throne](Lore_Ruby_Throne.md). Since then, the heart of the [Empire](Lore_Empire.md) has fallen into madness, murder, and decay. It is fortunate for our peoples—indeed, for all the peoples of Tamriel—that the true flame of the Empire of Man still burns in the Daggerfall Covenant. These are terrible times, but our destiny lies before us as straight and true as the [Reman](Lore_Reman.md) roads: we must march on Cyrodiil, overthrow the false empress and all her brood, and restore the Empire of Tamriel. Then once more peace and justice will rule the provinces, rather than blood and fire.