# Fourth Era

---
All Events | [Only Major Events](Lore_Fourth_Era_Major.md)
---
**Note:** The Fourth Era of Tamriel is also referred to as the *Fourth Age*.<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-1)</sup>

## First Century
4E 1 — Post [Oblivion Crisis](Lore_Oblivion_Crisis.md), the Fourth Era begins.<sup>[[2]](#cite_note-Skyrim Load-2)</sup><sup>[[nb 1]](#cite_note-HEIRSDF-4)</sup> - The Fourth Era begins with no Emperor on the throne of Tamriel. [High Chancellor Ocato](Lore_Ocato_of_Firsthold.md), the [Elder Council](Lore_Elder_Council.md), and the [Blades](Lore_Blades.md) try to maintain order. The provinces start to take advantage of the Empire's weakened state.

4E 5 — The [Red Year](Lore_Red_Year.md). [Red Mountain](Lore_Red_Mountain.md) erupts; [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md) is devastated by natural disasters. - In [Vivec](Lore_Vivec.md)'s absence, the [Ministry of Truth](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Morrowind:Ministry_of_Truth) becomes unstable. [Vuhon](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Books:Greg_Keyes_Novels_Vuhon) creates an [Ingenium](Lore_Ingenium.md) that uses at first dozens of dying souls, then a small number of living ones to stabilize the rock. The soul of [Sul](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Books:Greg_Keyes_Novels_Sul)'s wife [Ilzheven](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Books:Greg_Keyes_Novels_Ilzheven) was among them. In a fight to free her, the Ingenium is destroyed and the rock crashes into the city of [Vivec](Lore_Vivec_(city).md) with all the energy it originally had. The impact causes Red Mountain to erupt and lays waste to the entire island of Vvardenfell, as well as causing massive destruction to the rest of the province.<sup>[[4]](#cite_note-TIC-5)</sup>

4E 5–10 — The Empire begins to collapse. [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md) secedes from the Empire after the explosion of Red Mountain. - The [Argonians](Lore_Argonian.md) invade [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md) and cripple [House Telvanni](Lore_House_Telvanni.md) and also hamper fellow slavers [House Dres](Lore_House_Dres.md). They are stopped by the forces of [House Redoran](Lore_House_Redoran.md).<sup>[[4]](#cite_note-TIC-5)</sup>

4E 8 — The [Rogue Hist of Lilmoth](Lore_Hist.md#The_Rogue_Hist_of_Lilmoth) appears, cutting itself off from its brethren.<sup>[[4]](#cite_note-TIC-5)</sup><sup>:32</sup> - The Hist's roots wind through the city's lower district, speaking only to the [An-Xileel](Lore_An-Xileel.md) and the Wild Ones.<sup>[[4]](#cite_note-TIC-5)</sup><sup>:45:53</sup>

4E 11–15 — [Orsinium](Lore_Orsinium.md) is sacked by the combined forces of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md) and [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md). - Many Orc refugees flee east into [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). Orsinium is once again rebuilt and relocated, between Hammerfell and Skyrim.<sup>[[5]](#cite_note-LOS-6)</sup>

Circa 4E 15 — Potentate Ocato is assassinated, likely by [Thalmor](Lore_Thalmor.md) agents, initiating the [Stormcrown Interregnum](Lore_Stormcrown_Interregnum.md). - For the next seven years, the Elder Council is fractured by petty infighting over the Ruby Throne, further weakening [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) power in the provinces.<sup>[[6]](#cite_note-RT4-7)</sup>

4E 16 — The High King of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) formally gives [Solstheim](Lore_Solstheim.md) to the [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md).<sup>[[7]](#cite_note-HRR-8)</sup> 4E 20 — [Refugees' Rest](Skyrim_Refugees%27_Rest.md) is [decreed](Skyrim_Decree_of_Monument.md) a monument commemorating the struggle faced by the refugees fleeing Morrowind. - Once a meeting place for refugees fleeing to Skyrim from Morrowind, Refugees' Rest is decreed by the [Jarls](Skyrim_Jarl.md) of Skyrim as monument to the struggle of those who fled their native home of Morrowind in the time following the [Red Year](Lore_Red_Year.md).

4E 22 — The Thalmor seize total control of [Summerset Isle](Lore_Summerset_Isle.md) and rename it Alinor. Circa 4E 22 — [Titus Mede](Lore_Titus_Mede.md), a [Colovian](Lore_Colovian_Highlands.md) warlord, captures the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md) and is crowned the new Emperor of Tamriel.<sup>[[6]](#cite_note-RT4-7)</sup> 4E 26 — [Prince Attrebus Mede](Lore_Attrebus_Mede.md) is born.<sup>[[4]](#cite_note-TIC-5)</sup> 4E 29 — The [Aldmeri Dominion](Lore_Aldmeri_Dominion.md) is recreated after Alinor and [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md) proclaim a union, and all contact is severed with the [Empire](Lore_Empire.md). - The union comes about after a Thalmor-backed coup overthrows Valenwood's government. The Empire and its Bosmer allies in the Imperial-backed government are caught off-guard and defeated by better-prepared Bosmer and Thalmor troops following the coup.<sup>[[8]](#cite_note-TGW-9)</sup>
- The Dominion severs all contact with the Empire and is silent for the next 70 years. Most Imperial scholars believe that there was some sort of internal strife in Alinor during this period.<sup>[[8]](#cite_note-TGW-9)</sup>

4E 31 — [Annaïg Hoïnart](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Books:Greg_Keyes_Novels_Anna%C3%AFg_Ho%C3%AFnart) is born.<sup>[[4]](#cite_note-TIC-5)</sup> 4E 38 — Death of Vundheim, a great warrior and resident of [Windhelm](Lore_Windhelm.md). - His son, Deroct, lit a candle above the hearth in his house in his honor. As of [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201), the candle was still burning for reasons unknown, and the house had become an inn, [Candlehearth Hall](Skyrim_Candlehearth_Hall.md).<sup>[[9]](#cite_note-10)</sup>

4E 42 — The [Night of Green Fire](Lore_Night_of_Green_Fire.md) occurs in [Sentinel](Lore_Sentinel.md). - [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md) dissidents who had fled to Sentinel from the Thalmor in [Alinor](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md) are attacked by Thalmor operatives. Their efforts to fight back against the Thalmor are in vain and, by the time [Imperial Legion](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md) soldiers arrive, the entire refugee district of the city has been destroyed. The event becomes known as "The Night of Green Fire" due to the destructive magic attacks employed by both sides.<sup>[[10]](#cite_note-SRFasendil-11)</sup>

Circa 4E 48 — With Imperial influence waning in [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md), the [Mane](Lore_Mane.md) is assassinated. - The south of Elsweyr is engulfed in war, while in the north, an unknown potentate seizes control of [Rimmen](Lore_Rimmen.md).<sup>[[4]](#cite_note-TIC-5)</sup>

4E 48 — [Umbriel](Lore_Umbriel.md), a floating city, appears on the coast of [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md), heading toward [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md).<sup>[[4]](#cite_note-TIC-5)</sup> 4E 50 — The [Keepers of the Razor](Lore_Keepers_of_the_Razor.md) first appear in Imperial records. 4E 65 — [Brara Morvayn](Lore_Brara_Morvayn.md), ruler of Solstheim, passes away and is replaced by her son [Lleril](Lore_Lleril_Morvayn.md). 4E 95 — An unsuccessful attempt is made on the life of Lleril Morvayn as part of a plot masterminded by [House Hlaalu](Lore_House_Hlaalu.md) to take control of Solstheim from [House Redoran](Lore_House_Redoran.md). 4E 98 — The two moons of [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md) — [Masser](Lore_Masser.md) and [Secunda](Lore_Secunda.md) —vanish for two years in what becomes known as the [Void Nights](Lore_Void_Nights.md). - The Jarl of Riften is assassinated and replaced by Hosgunn Crossed-Daggers. Many believe Hosgunn is responsible, but the Jarl clears the streets of protestors and curfew is instilled, with those breaking it being immediately jailed or executed. For the next forty years, Hosgunn would drain the wealth of Riften into his own coffers.

## Second Century
Circa 4E 100 — [Artaeum](Lore_Artaeum.md) disappears. - For the second time in recorded history, the island Artaeum, home of the [Psijic Order](Lore_Psijic_Order.md), vanishes.

4E 100 — The Void Nights end, with the Thalmor taking credit for the return of Nirn's moons. - The Khajiit credit the Thalmor as their saviors and Imperial influence in Elsweyr begins to wane dramatically.

4E 115 — The Elsweyr Confederacy becomes the two kingdoms of Anequina and Pelletine, which the Aldmeri Dominion accepts as client states. 4E 122 — Most of [Winterhold](Lore_Winterhold_(city).md) collapses into the sea during an event known as the [Great Collapse](Lore_Great_Collapse.md). - The citizens blame the College of Winterhold due to its remaining unscathed when everything around it falls into the [Sea of Ghosts](Lore_Sea_of_Ghosts.md). The College denies this, theorizing that the collapse is tied to the destruction of Vivec and eruption of Red Mountain.

4E 129 — [Riften](Lore_Riften.md) is razed during an uprising against its Jarl. - The citizens rebel and burn Hosgunn's castle to the ground with him inside, but the fire spreads to the rest of the city. Riften is rebuilt over the next five years, but remains little more than a "glorified fortress" of "wooden structures and rough stonework" compared to the sprawling city of old.

4E 130 — Lleril Morvayn uses his personal wealth to repair the Bulwark, a barricade which protects Raven Rock from ash storms. 4E 150 — A small force of Argonians land on the island of Solstheim bent on destruction. They are repelled by the Redoran Guard under Lleril Morvayn. 4E 166 — [Skald Felgeif](Lore_Skald_Felgeif.md) becomes Jarl of [Dawnstar](Lore_Dawnstar.md). - Skald's father dies on the battlefield, leaving a teenage Skald to rule the city.<sup>[[11]](#cite_note-TESVSPOGG-12)</sup>

4E 168 — Emperor Titus Mede II ascends to the throne. - The Empire is now a shadow of its former glory. Valenwood and Elsweyr have been ceded to the Thalmor, Black Marsh has been lost to Imperial rule since the Oblivion Crisis, Morrowind has yet to fully recover from the eruption of Red Mountain, and Hammerfell is plagued by infighting between the Crown and Forebear factions. Only High Rock, Cyrodiil, and Skyrim remain prosperous and peaceful.

4E 170 — The residents of [Blackridge](Lore_Blackridge.md) are massacred by Captain Martius Silius and his soldiers.<sup>[[12]](#cite_note-13)</sup> 4E 171 — The [Great War](Lore_Great_War.md) begins with armies from the [Aldmeri Dominion](Lore_Aldmeri_Dominion.md) invading the Imperial provinces of Hammerfell and Cyrodiil. - After Titus II rejects an ultimatum to make massive concessions to the Thalmor, Aldmeri armies invade. An army led by Thalmor general [Lord Naarifin](Lore_Naarifin.md) emerges from hidden camps in northern Elsweyr and assaults southern Cyrodiil, flanking Imperial defenses along the Valenwood border. Leyawiin falls to the invaders, and Bravil is surrounded and besieged. Simultaneously, an army under Lady Arannelya crosses western Cyrodiil, bypassing Anvil and Kvatch and entering Hammerfell. This army is joined by smaller forces landing on Hammerfell's coast. Imperial troops are forced into retreat across the Alik'r Desert, in an event known as the March of Thirst.

4E 174 — The Imperial City is sacked by Aldmeri forces. - Titus II flees north from the city, smashing through the surrounding Aldmeri forces with his main army and linking up with reinforcements heading south from Skyrim under General Jonna. The Imperial City falls to the invaders. The Imperial Palace is burned, White-Gold Tower is looted, and the Aldmeri commit many atrocities against the defenseless populace.

4E 174 — The [Reachmen](Lore_Reachmen.md) rebel, taking over [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md). - With the Empire busy fighting the Thalmor, [Markarth](Lore_Markarth.md) is left undefended. The Reachmen take the opportunity to overthrow the Nords of the Reach, retaking the Reach easily. The changeover is relatively peaceful, with only a few of the harshest Nord landowners being put to death.

4E 175 — The Battle of the Red Ring results in the complete destruction of the main Aldmeri force in Cyrodiil, a victory for the Empire precipitating the end of the Great War. - The Imperial City is retaken and Titus II's decision to withdraw from it the previous year is vindicated. Despite this resounding victory, however, the Empire is exhausted and unable to continue the war. Realizing this, Titus II seeks to negotiate with the Aldmeri Dominion to end the war.

4E 175 — The Elder Scrolls mysteriously disappear from the Imperial Library. - The Elder Scrolls are scattered across Tamriel by forces unknown. Members of the [Cult of the Ancestor Moth](Lore_Ancestor_Moth_Cult.md) set out to search for them.

4E 175 — The [Great War](Lore_Great_War.md) ends with the [White-Gold Concordat](Lore_White-Gold_Concordat.md). - The peace treaty between the Empire and the Aldmeri Dominion gives the Thalmor free rein to stamp out the worship of [Talos](Lore_Talos.md) throughout the Empire, and cedes a large section of southern Hammerfell. Critics note that these terms are almost identical to the ultimatum that Titus II rejected at the start of the war.

4E 175 — [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md) leaves the Empire after rejecting the White-Gold Concordat. - Titus II renounces Hammerfell as a province of the Empire to preserve the treaty after the Redguards oppose ceding their lands. The Redguards see this as a betrayal, and a lasting bitterness between Hammerfell and the Empire is sown to the delight of the Thalmor. Hammerfell continues to war with the Aldmeri Dominion for the next five years.

4E 176 — [Ulfric Stormcloak](Lore_Ulfric_Stormcloak.md) retakes The Reach, instigating the [Markarth Incident](Lore_Forsworn.md#The_Markarth_Incident). - The Empire and the deposed Jarl of the Reach, Hrolfdir, promise Ulfric Stormcloak free worship of Talos in exchange for retaking the province. Ulfric forms a Nord militia and crushes the Reachmen at Markarth with the aid of the [thu'um](Lore_Thu%27um.md). The survivors flee into the wilds, forming a group called the [Forsworn](Lore_Forsworn.md). After the Empire reestablishes control over the Reach, Ulfric is arrested when the Thalmor discover the open worship of Talos. Ulfric and his men are eventually released, but the incident kindles what will become the Stormcloak Rebellion.

4E 176 — [Gallus Desidenius](Lore_Gallus_Desidenius.md), Guildmaster of the Thieves Guild, is murdered by [Mercer Frey](Lore_Mercer_Frey.md). 4E 179 — Cresitus, an Imperial treasure hunter, claims [Umbra](Lore_Umbra.md) within Champion's Rest.<sup>[[13]](#cite_note-14)</sup> 4E 180 — The Second Treaty of Stros M'Kai is signed. - Having been fought to a standstill by the Redguards, the Aldmeri Dominion withdraws from Hammerfell.

4E 180<sup>[[14]](#cite_note-15)</sup> — [Celemaril Light-Bringer](Lore_Celemaril_Light-Bringer.md) returns. - The ancient [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) Sorcerer-King Celemaril Light-Bringer is freed from his imprisonment and returns as an undead [lich](Lore_Lich.md) hellbent on destroying the world.<sup>[[15]](#cite_note-16)</sup> He is defeated in single combat and sealed within [the Abyss](Lore_The_Abyss.md) by a hero known only as [the Warrior](Lore_Hero.md#Warrior).<sup>[[16]](#cite_note-17)</sup>

4E 181 — The [ebony](Lore_Ebony.md) mines of [Raven Rock](Lore_Raven_Rock.md) are completely exhausted, and the colony turns to hunting and fishing for sustenance. 4E 188 — [Wayrest](Lore_Wayrest.md) falls to corsairs. - Corsairs seize Wayrest and raid the [Dark Brotherhood](Lore_Dark_Brotherhood.md) sanctuary there, destroying it. The Forgotten Hero fought alongside the city's defenders, driving the raiders back from the gates. The Princess claimed the throne as Queen Barynia.

4E 188 — [Bravil](Lore_Bravil.md) erupts into violence. - A war of control being waged by Cyrodiil's two largest skooma traffickers leads to violent fighting within the city. The Lucky Old Lady statue is destroyed in the fighting. The [Night Mother](Lore_Night_Mother.md)'s crypt is raided and [Alisanne Dupre](Lore_Alisanne_Dupre.md), Listener of the Dark Brotherhood, is killed defending it. The Night Mother's remains would later come into the care of [Cicero](Lore_Cicero.md).

4E 195 — The *[Ruminations on the Elder Scrolls](Lore_Ruminations_on_the_Elder_Scrolls.md)* are published by [Septimus Signus](Lore_Septimus_Signus.md).<sup>[[17]](#cite_note-Rot ES-18)</sup>
## Third Century
4E 200 — On the 2nd of First Seed, the mage [Thoron](Lore_Thoron.md) catches a glimpse of [Mania](Lore_Mania.md) and begins his mad quest to break the barriers between the [Shivering Isles](Lore_Shivering_Isles.md) and [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md).<sup>[[18]](#cite_note-S.26S-19)</sup> 4E 201 — [Torygg](Lore_Torygg.md), the High King of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), is killed by Jarl [Ulfric Stormcloak](Lore_Ulfric_Stormcloak.md) of Windhelm in [Solitude](Lore_Solitude.md).<sup>[[19]](#cite_note-Skyrim-20)</sup> 4E 201 — The [Stormcloak Rebellion](Lore_Stormcloak_Rebellion.md) - The people of Skyrim become divided between the [Stormcloaks](Lore_Stormcloaks.md), led by Jarl Ulfric Stormcloak, and the [Imperial Legion](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md), commanded by military governor [General Tullius](Lore_Tullius.md). The Stormcloaks believe the Nordic way of life is at risk, while the Imperials believe Skyrim is a part of the Empire, and must follow its laws and customs.<sup>[[19]](#cite_note-Skyrim-20)</sup>

4E 201 — On the 17th of Last Seed, [Alduin the World-Eater](Lore_Alduin.md) destroys the town of [Helgen](Lore_Helgen.md), heralding the [return of the dragons](Lore_Return_of_the_Dragons.md) and the end of the world. - The [Last Dragonborn](Lore_Hero.md#Last_Dragonborn) is revealed after slaying the dragon [Mirmulnir](Skyrim_Mirmulnir.md), who was threatening the city of [Whiterun](Lore_Whiterun.md).<sup>[[19]](#cite_note-Skyrim-20)</sup>
- The Last Dragonborn defeats Alduin in [Sovngarde](Lore_Sovngarde.md) with the help of the spirits of [Felldir the Old](Lore_Felldir_the_Old.md), [Gormlaith Golden-Hilt](Lore_Gormlaith_Golden-Hilt.md), and [Hakon One-Eye](Lore_Hakon_One-Eye.md). Dragons remain in Skyrim, but, with no leader, are scattered and sparse. It is hinted that Alduin was not utterly destroyed and that his soul may exist to return at the end times to devour the world. [Paarthurnax](Lore_Paarthurnax.md) may still be alive attempting to teach the remaining dragons the [Way of the Voice](Lore_Way_of_the_Voice.md) to overcome their nature to dominate.<sup>[[19]](#cite_note-Skyrim-20)</sup>

4E 201 — The last known remaining sanctuary of the [Dark Brotherhood](Lore_Dark_Brotherhood.md) is attacked by the [Penitus Oculatus](Lore_Penitus_Oculatus.md) and loses many of its members during a plot to assassinate [Emperor Titus Mede II](Lore_Titus_Mede_II.md).<sup>[[19]](#cite_note-Skyrim-20)</sup> 4E 201 — Death of [Emperor Titus Mede II](Lore_Titus_Mede_II.md). - His death is disputed, but one rumor states that he was killed by a surviving member of the [Dark Brotherhood](Lore_Dark_Brotherhood.md) during a trip to Skyrim.<sup>[[19]](#cite_note-Skyrim-20)</sup>

4E 201 — The [College of Winterhold](Lore_College_of_Winterhold.md) and the city of [Winterhold](Lore_Winterhold_(city).md) are saved from a [Thalmor](Lore_Thalmor.md) plot. - A Thalmor agent, [Ancano](Skyrim_Ancano.md), attempts to draw power from an ancient artifact called the [Eye of Magnus](Lore_Eye_of_Magnus.md) discovered during an expedition to the ancient ruins of [Saarthal](Lore_Saarthal.md). After killing [the College's leader](Lore_Savos_Aren.md) and almost destroying the city of Winterhold, Ancano is killed by a member of the college, who uses the [Staff of Magnus](Lore_Staff_of_Magnus.md) to contain the Eye's power. The Eye is secured by members of the [Psijic Order](Lore_Psijic_Order.md) who had foreseen Ancano's plot.<sup>[[19]](#cite_note-Skyrim-20)</sup>

4E 201 — [The Thieves Guild](Lore_Thieves_Guild.md) in Skyrim is restored to its former glory.<sup>[[19]](#cite_note-Skyrim-20)</sup> 4E 201 — [The Companions](Lore_Companions.md) reassemble Wuuthrad, the weapon used by their ancient patron [Ysgramor](Lore_Ysgramor.md). - The death of Harbinger [Kodlak Whitemane](Lore_Kodlak_Whitemane.md) at the hands of a werewolf hunting group known as the [Silver Hand](Lore_Silver_Hand.md) triggers a retaliatory attack leading to the group's destruction.<sup>[[19]](#cite_note-Skyrim-20)</sup>
- The surviving members of the Circle travel to Ysgramor's tomb and posthumously cure Whitemane's lycanthropy, freeing his soul from an eternity of service to [Hircine](Lore_Hircine.md).<sup>[[19]](#cite_note-Skyrim-20)</sup>

4E 201 — An ancient vampire hunting group known as the [Dawnguard](Lore_Dawnguard.md) is reformed to fight the growing threat of vampires in Skyrim. - [Lord Harkon](Lore_Harkon.md) of the [Volkihar](Lore_Volkihar.md) vampire clan seeks the [Elder Scrolls](Lore_Elder_Scrolls.md) in order to discover the location of Auriel's Bow, which has the means to blot out the sun.<sup>[[19]](#cite_note-Skyrim-20)</sup>
- Auriel's bow is found, and Lord Harkon is slain.<sup>[[19]](#cite_note-Skyrim-20)</sup>

4E 201 — [Miraak](Lore_Miraak.md), the first Dragonborn, reawakens on [Solstheim](Lore_Solstheim.md). - After being intercepted by cultists, the Last Dragonborn travels to the island of Solstheim and is challenged by Miraak.<sup>[[20]](#cite_note-Dragonborn-21)</sup>
- The Last Dragonborn defeats Miraak after gaining forbidden knowledge from [Apocrypha](Lore_Apocrypha.md).<sup>[[20]](#cite_note-Dragonborn-21)</sup>

4E 201 — The [ebony](Lore_Ebony.md) mines of [Raven Rock](Lore_Raven_Rock.md) reopen after an investigation reveals an old draugr crypt and large amounts of ebony.<sup>[[20]](#cite_note-Dragonborn-21)</sup> 4E 201 — A second attempt on [Lleril Morvayn](Lore_Lleril_Morvayn.md)'s life by assassins of [House Hlaalu](Lore_House_Hlaalu.md) is thwarted by the Last Dragonborn.<sup>[[20]](#cite_note-Dragonborn-21)</sup> 4E 201 — [The Mechanical Heart](Lore_Mechanical_Heart.md) finishes construction, 207 years after the death of [Sotha Sil](Lore_Sotha_Sil.md). - The heart powered the [Clockwork City](Lore_Clockwork_City.md) during its development, and after its completion.<sup>[[21]](#cite_note-RCWC-22)</sup>

4E 201 — [Mecinar](Lore_Mecinar.md), a former [Clockwork Apostle](Lore_Clockwork_Apostles.md) who was exiled from the Clockwork City for his inhumane experiments, set out to retrieve [Barilzar's Mazed Band](Lore_Barilzar%27s_Mazed_Band.md) to use to return to the city to continue his research on creating the perfect lifeform and to carry out his plan. He was slain by the Forgotten Hero. - The state of the Clockwork City is unknown, as reports conflict, with one rumor stating that the city was destroyed with its inhabitants leaving, and another saying that the city survived.<sup>[[21]](#cite_note-RCWC-22)</sup>

4E 201 — A reformed cell of the [Mythic Dawn](Lore_Mythic_Dawn.md), under the leadership of [Vonos](Lore_Vonos.md), is successful in bypassing the liminal barrier with an Oblivion Gate. - By choosing a specific site where the Liminal Barrier was particularly weak, using the shattered remnants of destroyed Oblivion Gates to assemble a new one by hand, multiple human sacrifices, waiting for a civil war to weaken the Liminal Barriers further, and finally tricking a child of Akatosh into striking him down while he possessed an incredibly rare Great Welkynd Stone Vonos managed to open a single Oblivion Gate for Mehrunes Dagon. The Dragonborn managed to defeat the siege force on the other side of the Gate, and the Vigil of Stendarr secured the site.<sup>[[22]](#cite_note-Vonos-23)</sup><sup>[[23]](#cite_note-Ef TC-24)</sup><sup>[[24]](#cite_note-Ef TCO-25)</sup>

## Notes
1. [^](#cite_ref-HEIRSDF_4-0) The timeline in *[The Daggerfall Chronicles](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Books:The_Daggerfall_Chronicles)* has both the First Era and the Third Era starting with a year zero ([1E 0](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_0) and [3E 0](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_0)). It is unknown if other eras start differently.<sup>[[3]](#cite_note-DFC-3)</sup><sup>:5, 7</sup>

## References
1. [^](#cite_ref-1) [*The Oblivion Crisis*](Lore_The_Oblivion_Crisis.md) — [Praxis Sarcorum](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Praxis_Sarcorum), Imperial Historian
2. [^](#cite_ref-Skyrim Load_2-0) [Loading screen](Skyrim_Loading_Screens.md#By_Era) in *[Skyrim](Skyrim_Skyrim.md)*
3. [^](#cite_ref-DFC_3-0) [*The Daggerfall Chronicles*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Books:The_Daggerfall_Chronicles) — Ronald Wartow
4. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-TIC_5-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-TIC_5-1)***</sup><sup>***[c](#cite_ref-TIC_5-2)***</sup><sup>***[d](#cite_ref-TIC_5-3)***</sup><sup>***[e](#cite_ref-TIC_5-4)***</sup><sup>***[f](#cite_ref-TIC_5-5)***</sup><sup>***[g](#cite_ref-TIC_5-6)***</sup><sup>***[h](#cite_ref-TIC_5-7)***</sup> [*The Infernal City*](Lore_The_Infernal_City.md) — [Greg Keyes](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/General:Greg_Keyes)
5. [^](#cite_ref-LOS_6-0) [*Lord of Souls*](Lore_Lord_of_Souls.md) — [Greg Keyes](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/General:Greg_Keyes)
6. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-RT4_7-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-RT4_7-1)***</sup> [*Rising Threat, Vol. IV*](Lore_Rising_Threat,_Vol._IV.md) — [Lathenil of Sunhold](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Lathenil_of_Sunhold)
7. [^](#cite_ref-HRR_8-0) [*History of Raven Rock*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:History_of_Raven_Rock) — [Lyrin Telleno](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Lyrin_Telleno)
8. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-TGW_9-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-TGW_9-1)***</sup> [*The Great War*](Lore_The_Great_War_(book).md) — Legate [Justianus Quintius](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Justianus_Quintius)
9. [^](#cite_ref-10) Dialogue with [Elda Early-Dawn](Skyrim_Elda_Early-Dawn.md) in [*Skyrim*](Skyrim_Skyrim.md)
10. [^](#cite_ref-SRFasendil_11-0) [Legate Fasendil](Skyrim_Legate_Fasendil.md)'s dialogue in *[Skyrim](Skyrim_Skyrim.md)*
11. [^](#cite_ref-TESVSPOGG_12-0) [*The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim: Prima Official Game Guide*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Books:The_Elder_Scrolls_V__Skyrim__Prima_Official_Game_Guide) — David Hodgson
12. [^](#cite_ref-13) [Boregis](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Blades:Boregis)' dialogue in *[Blades](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Blades:Blades)*
13. [^](#cite_ref-14) [*Treasure Hunter's Journal*](Skyrim_Treasure_Hunter%27s_Journal.md) — [Cresitus](Skyrim_Umbra.md)
14. [^](#cite_ref-15) [Junius the Elder](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Blades:Junius_the_Elder)'s dialogue in *[Blades](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Blades:Blades)*
15. [^](#cite_ref-16) [Shulkunaak](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Blades:Shulkunaak)'s dialogue in *[Blades](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Blades:Blades)*
16. [^](#cite_ref-17) [Wrath of the Sorcerer-King](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Blades:Wrath_of_the_Sorcerer-King) quest in *[Blades](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Blades:Blades)*
17. [^](#cite_ref-Rot ES_18-0) [*Ruminations on the Elder Scrolls*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Ruminations_on_the_Elder_Scrolls) — [Septimus Signus](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Septimus_Signus), College of Winterhold
18. [^](#cite_ref-S.26S_19-0) [*Thoron's Journal*](Lore_Thoron%27s_Journal.md) — Thoron
19. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-Skyrim_20-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-Skyrim_20-1)***</sup><sup>***[c](#cite_ref-Skyrim_20-2)***</sup><sup>***[d](#cite_ref-Skyrim_20-3)***</sup><sup>***[e](#cite_ref-Skyrim_20-4)***</sup><sup>***[f](#cite_ref-Skyrim_20-5)***</sup><sup>***[g](#cite_ref-Skyrim_20-6)***</sup><sup>***[h](#cite_ref-Skyrim_20-7)***</sup><sup>***[i](#cite_ref-Skyrim_20-8)***</sup><sup>***[j](#cite_ref-Skyrim_20-9)***</sup><sup>***[k](#cite_ref-Skyrim_20-10)***</sup><sup>***[l](#cite_ref-Skyrim_20-11)***</sup> Events of *[Skyrim](Skyrim_Skyrim.md)*
20. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-Dragonborn_21-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-Dragonborn_21-1)***</sup><sup>***[c](#cite_ref-Dragonborn_21-2)***</sup><sup>***[d](#cite_ref-Dragonborn_21-3)***</sup> Events of *[Skyrim](Skyrim_Skyrim.md): [Dragonborn](Skyrim_Dragonborn.md)*
21. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-RCWC_22-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-RCWC_22-1)***</sup> Events of [Return to Clockwork City](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Legends:Return_to_Clockwork_City)
22. [^](#cite_ref-Vonos_23-0) [*Vonos' Journal*](Lore_Vonos%27_Journal.md) — [Vonos](Lore_Vonos.md)
23. [^](#cite_ref-Ef TC_24-0) Events of [The Cause](Skyrim_The_Cause_(quest).md) in *[Skyrim](Skyrim_Skyrim.md)*
24. [^](#cite_ref-Ef TCO_25-0) Events of [The Consequences](Skyrim_The_Consequences.md) in *[Skyrim](Skyrim_Skyrim.md)*