# Gods E

[Overview](Lore_Gods.md) | [A](Lore_Gods_A.md) [B](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Gods_B) [C](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Gods_C) [D](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Gods_D) E [F](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Gods_F) [G](Lore_Gods_G.md) [H](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Gods_H) [I](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Gods_I) [J](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Gods_J) [K](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Gods_K) [L](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Gods_L) [M](Lore_Gods_M.md) [N](Lore_Gods_N.md) [O](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Gods_O) [P](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Gods_P) [Q](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Gods_Q) [R](Lore_Gods_R.md) [S](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Gods_S) [T](Lore_Gods_T.md) [U](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Gods_U) [V](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Gods_V) [W](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Gods_W) [X](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Gods_X) [Y](Lore_Gods_Y.md) [Z](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Gods_Z)
---

#### Ebonarm, the God of War
[Reymon Ebonarm](Lore_Reymon_Ebonarm.md) (also called **Ebonarm** or the **Black Knight**) is the God of War and the companion and protector of all warriors. He is said to ride a golden [stallion](Lore_Horse.md) named [War Master](Lore_War_Master.md), and is accompanied by a pair of huge [ravens](Lore_Raven.md). Ebonarm's name refers to the [Ebony](Lore_Ebony.md) sword fused to his right arm due to the wounds he suffered in titanic battles of the past, and he is never seen without a full suit of ebony armor. He is described as bearded, tall, muscular, and having flowing reddish blonde hair and steel blue eyes. Emblazoned on his ebony tower shield is the symbol of a red rose, a flower known for blooming on battlefields where he appears. According to legend, he appears on the battlefield to reconcile opposing sides and prevent bloodshed.

#### Egg Mother
The [Egg Mother](Lore_Egg_Mother.md) is an obscure entity venerated by the [Lamias](Lore_Lamia.md).<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-Tzik.27nith-1)</sup>

#### Ehlnofey, the Earth Bones
The [Ehlnofey](Lore_Ehlnofey.md) (sometimes spelled **Elhnofey**) of the [Dawn Era](Lore_Dawn_Era.md) are generally believed to be a group of [Aedric](Lore_Aedra.md) pre- [Convention](Lore_Convention.md) spirits who, along with the [Hist](Lore_Hist.md), are counted among the original inhabitants of [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md), and are widely considered to be the progenitors of the mortal races. The word "Ehlnofey" translates to **Earthbones** (or **Earth Bone**) in [Ehlnofex](Lore_Ehlnofex_Languages.md). The terms "Earthbone" or "Ehlnofey" are used to denote more than one type of mythical entity. The term "Ehlnofey" is typically used to refer to the spirits that didn't sacrifice themselves, from whom the various mortal races would descend, whereas "Earthbone" typically connotes those Ehlnofey who, like [Y'ffre](Lore_Y%27ffre.md), would at some point sacrifice themselves to form the rules of nature. The nature of the spirits the term pertains to can vary depending on account.

The concept of the Ehlnofey is of paramount importance within the beliefs of the [elves](Lore_Mer.md), particularly the [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md) and [Bosmer](Lore_Bosmer.md), where the term is used to represent their cultural understanding of the Aedra as ancestor spirits. According to elven myth, the Ehlnofey are considered to be the Aedric spirits who stayed in Nirn after [Magnus](Lore_Magnus.md) and the [Magna Ge](Lore_Magna_Ge.md) departed in order to keep working on the new world so it'd remain viable. Among those spirits, some, typically referred to from that point on as "Earthbones", are thought to have followed the example of Y'ffre, giving themselves to the Mundus fully to stabilize it and form the foundation of its natural law as the "bones of the earth", eternal laws of nature. While others, typically referred to from that point on as "Ehlnofey", are thought to have chosen not to give themselves fully but to populate Nirn instead, thus becoming the progenitors to mortal life, which arose from their lines and took on its current form due to a phenomenon of gradual diminishment, of each consecutive generation becoming weaker and more removed than its progenitors in stature and might. This understanding forms the basis of the originally elvish term "Aedra" or "ancestor", denoting those spirits which they perceive as being part of their mythic genealogy, including figures such as [Auri-El](Lore_Auri-El.md), who most modern Altmer and Bosmer claim direct descent from, [Trinimac](Lore_Trinimac.md) the "greatest knight of the Ehlnofey", [Syrabane](Lore_Syrabane.md), and [Phynaster](Lore_Phynaster.md). Thus elven religious iconography depicts the Ehlnofey as vaguely elven in shape, but featureless, reflecting the fading memory of the Ehlnofey.

The Aedra or Ehlnofey are thought to have remained within the world until they vanished. They are thought to primarily reside in [Aetherius](Lore_Aetherius.md), having been bound to the Earth Bones as the cornerstones of the Mundus. The terms "spokes", "eight components of [chaos](Lore_Aurbis.md)", "lent bones of the Aedra", "Bones of the Wheel", "et'Ada-gears" and ["Eight gift-limbs"](Lore_Planets.md) have also been used to refer to them in this capacity, after having transformed into the framework of reality. Some sources present a more negative view of the circumstances of these spirits and their residence in Aetherius, naming the Mundus as their "cemetery", calling them "spent ghosts", alleging them to have died as part of the creation of the world, having "died in pursuit of an impossible goal", or to have burial crypts. Thus the Aedra are sometimes called the "dead gods" or the "mortal gods", sometimes disparagingly, owing to them having become bound to the laws of mortality.

Different peoples harbor different understandings of Ehlnofey's relation to Aedra. In some accounts, both "Ehlnofey" and "Earth Bones" are described as referring exclusively to the early offspring of the Aedra rather than to the Aedra themselves, who were told to populate the world and live on through their children, leading to the gradual emergence of the various races of man and mer. The concept of descent from the ancestor spirits is generally viewed as "elven conceit" by the religions of [Men](Lore_Men.md) who, with the exception of the [Redguards](Lore_Redguards.md), view themselves as creations of those spirits rather than their descendants. *[The Annotated Anuad](Lore_The_Annotated_Anuad.md)* describes how the Aedra originated from the intermingling blood of [Anu](Lore_Anu.md) and [Padomay](Lore_Padomay.md), and how the Ehlnofey come from a world shattered by Padomay before Anu and Padomay's second "long and furious" battle began, suggesting, per said account, the Ehlnofey may have a separate origin predating the Aedra.

Perhaps because of their association with the land itself, "Old Ehlnofey" became another name for [Aldmeris](Lore_Aldmeris.md), the mystical homeland of the elves. The language or languages of the Ehlnofey became known as Ehlnofex. It has been found that the "Earth Bones", the laws of nature, can be manipulated to some extent.

#### Eight Divines
The original pantheon of [Divines](Lore_Divines.md) under the [Alessian Empire](Lore_Alessian_Empire.md), consisting of [Akatosh](Lore_Akatosh.md), [Arkay](Lore_Arkay.md), [Dibella](Lore_Dibella.md), [Julianos](Lore_Julianos.md), [Kynareth](Lore_Kynareth.md), [Mara](Lore_Mara.md), [Stendarr](Lore_Stendarr.md), and [Zenithar](Lore_Zenithar.md). Worship of the Eight Divines was introduced by [Alessia](Lore_Alessia.md) at the start of the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md). It was a carefully designed compromise between the [Aldmeri](Lore_Aldmer.md) deities that the humans of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) were accustomed to worshipping and the deities of Alessia's [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) allies.<sup>[[2]](#cite_note-SATD-2)</sup> Following the deification of [Tiber Septim](Lore_Tiber_Septim.md), [Talos](Lore_Talos.md) was added to the pantheon and they became the [Nine Divines](Lore_Nine_Divines.md). In the second century of the [Fourth Era](Lore_Fourth_Era.md), the [White-Gold Concordat](Lore_White-Gold_Concordat.md) between the [Empire](Lore_Empire.md) and the [Aldmeri Dominion](Lore_Aldmeri_Dominion.md) forbade worship of Talos, which contributed to the [Stormcloak Rebellion](Lore_Stormcloak_Rebellion.md). Anyone caught worshipping Talos was taken prisoner by the [Thalmor](Lore_Thalmor.md) Justiciars for punishment. Because of this, the pantheon of the Eight Divines returned to prominence.<sup>[[3]](#cite_note-TTM-3)</sup>

#### The Eldest
[The Eldest](Lore_The_Eldest.md) is an ancient [Strangler](Lore_Strangler.md) which has been in [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md) since creation itself. It was the lifeblood, the very essence of [Greenshade](Lore_Greenshade.md) and the state of its being reflected upon the forest around it.

There are many tales surrounding the Eldest, most of which have never been put to writing. Some speak of a bloodthirsty army which vowed to never make war again upon visiting the Eldest. Others speak of mischievous pranks played upon pilgrims. There's also the tale of the first pilgrims, a couple who watched the Eldest as if it was their own child. These pilgrims eventually became the first [Silvenar](Lore_The_Silvenar.md) and [Green Lady](Lore_Green_Lady.md). During springtime, Bosmer devotees travel to the Eldest's den, offering thanks to [Y'ffre](Lore_Y%27ffre.md) but to also read the stories of their home in the strangler's branches. This is followed by a mighty celebration where drinks are had and the aforementioned tales are shared. Another tale tells of a mother and her young daughter who seek refuge in the Den of the Eldest. In keeping with an ancient promise, the mother offered her firstborn to the Eldest in exchange for wisdom. The story goes that the daughter remains there for many years, until she grows into adulthood. Before leaving, she buried her childhood shoes in the soil, hoping they will help the Eldest grow.

Circa [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md), the Eldest was tainted by the [Veiled Heritance](Lore_Veiled_Heritance.md) in an attempt to corrupt Valenwood, using the strangler's innate connection to [the Green](Lore_The_Green.md) to spread taint throughout the forest. Flora turned to a state of undeath, water became tainted and even Bosmer turned feral. To save the wilds, [the Vestige](Lore_The_Vestige.md) was forced to put down the ancient being and carve out its heart, being presented then with two choices- to use the Eldest's heart to cleanse the forest, or to find another way and use it to grow a replacement Eldest. It's unknown which path the hero took, but whichever one was chosen resulted in most of the taint being cleansed.

#### Elder Gods
The [Elder Gods](Lore_Elder_Gods.md) are obscure entities, whose coming is forewarned, and in their coming [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md) is said to burn for its sins.<sup>[[4]](#cite_note-Aren Quest Dia-4)</sup>

#### Ephen
[Ephen](Lore_Ephen.md) (also called **S'ephen**)<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_Surname)</sup> was a [Chimer](Lore_Chimer.md)<sup>[[nb 2]](#intnote_Chimer)</sup> noble that was active during the early [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md). He is the center of an obscure temple-cult who worships him as **the God of the Wild** that was created in homage by his half-brother, [Moraelyn](Lore_Moraelyn.md), the Witch-King of [Ebonheart](Lore_Ebonheart.md). In death, he was given the duty of safeguarding the [Horn of Summoning](Lore_Horn_of_Summoning.md) and eventually the [Staff of Chaos](Lore_Staff_of_Chaos.md). Statues of Ephen depicted him wielding a hammer, atop of an anvil of [adamantium](Lore_Adamantium.md), and shrines dedicated to him have been active since the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), as far west as the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md).

## References
1. [^](#cite_ref-Tzik.27nith_1-0) [Tzik'nith](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Tzik%27nith)'s dialogue in [ESO](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Online)
2. [^](#cite_ref-SATD_2-0) [*Shezarr and the Divines*](Lore_Shezarr_and_the_Divines.md) — [Faustillus Junius](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Faustillus_Junius)
3. [^](#cite_ref-TTM_3-0) [*The Talos Mistake*](Lore_The_Talos_Mistake.md) — [Leonora Venatus](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Leonora_Venatus)
4. [^](#cite_ref-Aren Quest Dia_4-0) [Rumors](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Arena:Rumors) in *[Arena](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Arena:Arena)*