# Places X

[Overview](Lore_Places.md) | [A](Lore_Places_A.md) [B](Lore_Places_B.md) [C](Lore_Places_C.md) [D](Lore_Places_D.md) [E](Lore_Places_E.md) [F](Lore_Places_F.md) [G](Lore_Places_G.md) [H](Lore_Places_H.md) [I](Lore_Places_I.md) [J](Lore_Places_J.md) [K](Lore_Places_K.md) [L](Lore_Places_L.md) [M](Lore_Places_M.md) [N](Lore_Places_N.md) [O](Lore_Places_O.md) [P](Lore_Places_P.md) [Q](Lore_Places_Q.md) [R](Lore_Places_R.md) [S](Lore_Places_S.md) [T](Lore_Places_T.md) [U](Lore_Places_U.md) [V](Lore_Places_V.md) [W](Lore_Places_W.md) X [Y](Lore_Places_Y.md) [Z](Lore_Places_Z.md) | [Maps](Lore_Maps.md)
---

## Xaselm
[Xaselm](Lore_Xaselm.md) is a ruin in the [Shivering Isles](Lore_Shivering_Isles.md), located atop a hill northeast of [the Fringe](Lore_The_Fringe.md), close to the Gates of Madness. Like the other ancient ruins that dot the realm, Xaselm was originally built by the [Predecessors](Lore_Predecessors.md), mortal inhabitants of the Isles whose civilization was wiped out during a previous [Greymarch](Lore_Greymarch.md).

## Xavara
[Xavara](Lore_Xavara.md) is a ruin in the [Shivering Isles](Lore_Shivering_Isles.md), located in the swamps of [Dementia](Lore_Dementia_(place).md), northeast of [Fellmoor](Lore_Fellmoor.md). Like the other ancient ruins that dot the realm, Xavara was originally built by the [Predecessors](Lore_Predecessors.md), mortal inhabitants of the Isles whose civilization was wiped out during a previous [Greymarch](Lore_Greymarch.md). Very few surface ruins remain, and [root tunnels](Lore_Root.md) have broken through into Xavara's underground passages.

By [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433), Xavara was home to a group of [Zealots](Lore_Zealots.md), outcast mortals who worship [Arden-Sul](Lore_Arden-Sul.md). The subterranean halls of the ruins were populated at this time by the Zealots and their [undead](Lore_Undead.md) minions. In particular, Xavara was noted for the [Flesh Atronachs](Lore_Flesh_Atronach.md) that the Zealots could [conjure](Lore_Conjuration.md) for their protection. The ruins were cleared out that year by [Sheogorath](Lore_Sheogorath.md)'s [Champion](Lore_Hero_of_Kvatch.md).

## Xedilian
[Xedilian](Lore_Xedilian.md) is a ruined facility in the [Shivering Isles](Lore_Shivering_Isles.md) at the end of the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md). The facility once served as a way to keep unwanted visitors out of the Isles. The facility was powered by the Resonator of Judgment, a converted [Obelisk of Order](Lore_Obelisk_of_Order.md), which enticed adventurers to enter. Once there, they were either killed or driven mad, the former being favored by the denizens of [Dementia](Lore_Dementia_(place).md) and the latter by the residents of [Mania](Lore_Mania.md). The release of spore gas into the chambers was used to trigger the adventurers' descent into madness. Those who were driven mad were given a permanent place in the Isles. The ruins were made up of three main sections: the Chamber of Conversion, the Chamber of Avarice, and the Chamber of Anathema. The caretaker of the dungeon is Kiliban Nyrandil.

After the construction of the [Gatekeeper of the Fringe](Lore_Gatekeeper_of_the_Fringe.md), the facility fell into disuse. Only a few years later, a tribe of [grummites](Lore_Grummite.md) moved in. When the Gatekeeper was slain in [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433), Xedilian was put back into operation by Sheogorath's [Champion](Lore_Hero_of_Kvatch.md). It served to thwart the many [Tamrielic](Lore_Tamriel.md) adventurers entering the realm from the newly-opened portal in [Niben Bay](Lore_Niben_Bay.md), but was not enough to combat the [Forces of Order](Lore_Forces_of_Order.md) during the final [Greymarch](Lore_Greymarch.md). It is unknown if Xedilian continued to be used after the creation of a new Gatekeeper.

## Xi-Tak
[Xi-Tak](Lore_Xi-Tak.md) was an ancient [Argonian](Lore_Argonian.md) site located in the northern region of the isle of [Solstice](Lore_Solstice_(island).md). By the mid- [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), it had long been abandoned, though the Collegium Praxis of [Clan Corelanya](Lore_Clan_Corelanya.md) had laid plans for its restoration and expansion.

## Xi-Tsei
[Xi-Tsei](Lore_Xi-Tsei.md) is a ruined [Argonian](Lore_Argonian.md) temple located on the southern strip of [Blackwood](Lore_Blackwood.md), which falls under the province of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). Xi-Tsei is infamous among the locals of the region. By the mid [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), it was one of the haunts of the [Sul-Xan](Lore_Sul-Xan.md), an Argonian tribe of [Mehrunes Dagon](Lore_Mehrunes_Dagon.md) worshippers but historically, the [xanmeer](Lore_Xanmeer.md) was the site of a gruesome massacre in the [Blackwater War](Lore_Blackwater_War.md) and locals claim the area is cursed ever since.

## Xinchei-Konu Monument
The [Xinchei-Konu Monument](Lore_Xinchei-Konu_Monument.md) is an [Argonian](Lore_Argonian.md) ruin located on the [bay](Lore_Oliis_Bay.md) coast of [Murkmire](Lore_Murkmire.md), in the province of [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md). The monument functions as an ancient [calendar](Lore_Calendar.md), as well as a catalyst of needed change (known in [Jel](Lore_Jel.md) as *"ku-vastei"*). It is one of the last remnants from the Days of Stone-Nest, an era of prosperity for Argonians before the events known as [Duskfall](Lore_Duskfall.md). The monument generally has a myriad of secrets and uses, such as the ability to [change the weather](Lore_Weather_Magic.md) whenever needed.

## Xylo River
The [Xylo River](Lore_Xylo_River.md) is a waterway flowing partially along the traditional border between [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md) and [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md). It begins in the [Malabal Tor](Lore_Malabal_Tor.md) region of Valenwood, and its mouth is at a location known as Shaasanath Point. The river has been known to switch hands between the [Bosmer](Lore_Bosmer.md) and [Khajiit](Lore_Khajiit.md).

At last report in [3E 432](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_432), Elsweyr gained territory on the western bank of the river after the [Five Year War](Lore_Five_Year_War.md), and though a diplomatic attempt was made to return it, Khajiiti settlers in the area were refusing to move. The Empire thus decided to leave the situation as it was. The river purportedly maintains a fairly mild temperature even in wintertime, allowing for year-round swimming.