# Factions D

[Overview](Lore_Factions.md) | [A](Lore_Factions_A.md) [B](Lore_Factions_B.md) [C](Lore_Factions_C.md) D [E](Lore_Factions_E.md) [F](Lore_Factions_F.md) [G](Lore_Factions_G.md) [H](Lore_Factions_H.md) [I](Lore_Factions_I.md) [J](Lore_Factions_J.md) [K](Lore_Factions_K.md) [L](Lore_Factions_L.md) [M](Lore_Factions_M.md) [N](Lore_Factions_N.md) [O](Lore_Factions_O.md) [P](Lore_Factions_P.md) [Q](Lore_Factions_Q.md) [R](Lore_Factions_R.md) [S](Lore_Factions_S.md) [T](Lore_Factions_T.md) [U](Lore_Factions_U.md) [V](Lore_Factions_V.md) [W](Lore_Factions_W.md) [X](Lore_Factions_X.md) Y [Z](Lore_Factions_Z.md)
---

## Daedraphiles
The [Daedraphiles](Lore_Daedraphiles.md) (also referred to as **Ayleid Daedric Kingdoms**) were a faction of [Ayleids](Lore_Ayleid.md) who worshipped the [Daedra](Lore_Daedra.md). They can be contrasted with the older, [Aedra](Lore_Aedra.md) -worshipping culture of the [Barsaebic Ayleids](Lore_Barsaebic_Ayleids.md). Unlike their more conservative cousins, the Ayleid clans that adopted Daedra worship were noted for their decadent and vigorous societies.

The Daedraphiles followed the *Eleven Edicts of the Ten Ancestors*, and believed that the [Ten Ancestors](Lore_Ten_Ancestors.md) venerated by the Ayleids were in fact Daedra worshippers.

## Daedric Triad
The [Daedric Triad](Lore_Daedric_Triad.md) (or simply **the Triad**) was an alliance between three [Daedric Princes](Lore_Daedric_Princes.md) who were not bound by [Sotha Sil](Lore_Sotha_Sil.md)'s [Coldharbour Compact](Lore_Coldharbour_Compact.md), [Nocturnal](Lore_Nocturnal.md), [Mephala](Lore_Mephala.md), and [Clavicus Vile](Lore_Clavicus_Vile.md), that formed in the Second Era. In [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582) the three Princes enacted a plot gain control of the means via which to remake reality.

## Daggerfall Covenant

- *"It is fortunate for our peoples — indeed, for all the peoples of Tamriel — that the true flame of the Empire of Man still burns in the Daggerfall Covenant. These are terrible times, but our destiny lies before us as straight and true as the Reman roads: we must march on Cyrodiil, overthrow the false empress and all her brood, and restore the Empire of Tamriel. Then once more peace and justice will rule the provinces, rather than blood and fire."* —High King Emeric</noinclude>

The [Daggerfall Covenant](Lore_Daggerfall_Covenant.md) was a military alliance between the [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md) kingdoms of [Camlorn](Lore_Camlorn.md), [Daggerfall](Lore_Daggerfall.md), [Evermore](Lore_Evermore.md), [Shornhelm](Lore_Shornhelm.md), and [Wayrest](Lore_Wayrest.md), the northern [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md) kingdom of [Sentinel](Lore_Sentinel.md) and the city of [Hallin's Stand](Lore_Hallin%27s_Stand.md), and also [Orsinium](Lore_Orsinium.md) during the chaotic [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md) of the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). It vied with the [Aldmeri Dominion](Lore_Aldmeri_Dominion.md) and [Ebonheart Pact](Lore_Ebonheart_Pact.md) for control over the contested Ruby Throne in [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). The Covenant saw itself as the successor to the [Reman Dynasty](Lore_Reman_Dynasty.md) and aimed to restore the [Second Empire](Lore_Second_Empire.md) with the legitimacy to rule all of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). They advocated economic prosperity and the worship of the [Divines](Lore_Divines.md). In this mission it was led by a Royal Council, presided over by [High King Emeric](Lore_Emeric.md), a [Breton](Lore_Breton.md) merchant lord of superb diplomatic skill. The [Redguards](Lore_Redguard.md) were represented by King [Fahara'jad](Lore_Fahara%27jad.md), and the [Orcs](Lore_Orc.md) by King [Kurog](Lore_Kurog.md) gro-Bagrakh.

## Dark Brotherhood
The [Dark Brotherhood](Lore_Dark_Brotherhood.md) is a guild of assassins shrouded in shadow and mystery which has been active all over [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). While their business is certainly not legal, their existence has typically been tolerated or ignored. They operate from a number of hidden sanctuaries throughout the continent, with their secret headquarters said to be the [Nightside Asylum](Lore_Nightside_Asylum.md). Whenever an individual with legal authority takes an interest in their dealings, the Brotherhood relies upon a combination of bribery, blackmail, coercion, and murder to keep their activities hidden. They have been bitter rivals of the [Morag Tong](Lore_Morag_Tong.md) since the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). The Brotherhood is also known for their worship of the Dread Father [Sithis](Lore_Sithis.md) (personified chaos, also known as the Void). Dark Sisters are accepted into the Brotherhood as equals of Dark Brothers (though members of either gender are often referred to as Brothers).

## Daughters of Coldharbour
A [Daughter of Coldharbour](Lore_Daughters_of_Coldharbour.md) is a female individual who has been granted [vampirism](Lore_Vampire.md) through a ritual with the creator of vampires, [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md). The term is partially derived from the name of Molag Bal's plane of [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md), [Coldharbour](Lore_Coldharbour.md).

The first Daughter of Coldharbour [Lamae Beolfag](Lore_Lamae_Beolfag.md) was a [Nedic](Lore_Nede.md) virgin and priestess of Arkay who was raped by Molag Bal. Legends recount that after the ordeal, Molag Bal shed a droplet of blood upon her brow and left her to die. During the night she passed into death, but as her funeral pyre was still burning, she emerged as the first pure-blood vampire. Then she raped all the men in the village as savagely as Molag Bal had raped her.

Since Lamae, a tradition developed among cults dedicated to Molag Bal, which dictated that women be offered to him on his summoning day on the [20th of Evening Star](Lore_Calendar.md#Evening_Star). Few survive the ordeal, and those who do emerge as pure-blooded vampires. Being selected as an offering was considered to be an honor that was not to be rejected lightly.

Due to their pure blood, Daughters of Coldharbour are by definition [Vampire Lords](Lore_Vampire_Lord.md). However, vampires are inherently shape-changers, and one cannot rely on late-stage vampires of differing strains to look alike. Consequentially, some pure-blooded female vampires may possess the ability to assume more varied forms. For instance, one of the elder vampires imprisoned within [Ashbound Hall](Lore_Ashbound_Hall.md) could transform into a powerful [Bloodknight](Lore_Bloodknight.md).

## Dawnguard
The [Dawnguard](Lore_Dawnguard.md) are a group of [Vampire](Lore_Vampire.md) hunters that originate from the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). They are based in **Fort Dawnguard**, in the region of [the Rift](Lore_The_Rift.md), towards the provincial border in the [Velothi Mountains](Lore_Velothi_Mountains.md). It is found in the Dayspring Canyon of the Velothi Mountains.

## Deathbringer Clan
The [Deathbringer Clan](Lore_Deathbringer_Clan.md) (or **Clan Deathbringer**) is a [Daedric](Lore_Daedra.md) clan led by Valkynaz Seris, in service to [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md). The clan is based in [Coldharbour](Lore_Coldharbour.md). Although primarily composed of [Dremora](Lore_Dremora.md), the clan also counts [Xivilai](Lore_Xivilai.md) among their ranks.<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_nb1)</sup>

The Deathbringers rose to prominence in Coldharbour after betraying [Foolkillers Clan](Lore_Foolkillers_Clan.md), resulting in their imprisonment and banishment from the realm. Based out of the Pyramid, the Deathbringers rose high in Molag Bal's service, and were tasked with protecting the way to the Endless Stair and Molag Bal's inner sanctum. The clan's reign ended in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), when an exiled Foolkiller named [Lyranth](Lore_Lyranth.md) allied herself with an invasion force from [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). In return for slaying Seris, Lyranth gave the army access to the Endless Stair on their quest to end the Planemeld. With Seris vanquished, the Foolkillers returned to Coldharbour and took control of the Pyramid for themselves.

## Death Hunters
The [Death Hunters](Lore_Death_Hunters.md) were an organization of [vampire](Lore_Vampirism.md) and [werewolf](Lore_Lycanthropy.md) hunters. They operated throughout [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) during the chaotic times of the [Three Banners War](Lore_Three_Banners_War.md) in the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md). Recruiting from various races, including [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md), [Bosmer](Lore_Bosmer.md), [Nords](Lore_Nord.md), [Argonian](Lore_Argonian.md), [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md), and [Redguards](Lore_Redguard.md), they were driven by a dual motivation of both enjoying the fun of killing and adhering to their faith. They utilized [alchemy](Lore_Alchemy.md) and [magic](Lore_Magic.md). Engaging in conflicts with both werewolves and vampires, the Death Hunters frequently experienced casualties not only among the supernatural beings they hunted but also within their own ranks.

## Deathwing Clan
[Deathwing Clan](Lore_Deathwing_Clan.md) was one of numerous [clans](Lore_Reachman_Clans.md) of [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md) that lived in [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md) during the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). They were a nomadic clan, known for their beautiful and purposeful artworks, such as carvings, which (typically for the Reachfolk art in general) were known for their impressive rawness of emotion. The belief that clans should not remain in one place for long and that any item wanderers carry must be worth its weight was widespread among its members. The Deathwings revered the cycle of life and death.

## Dervishes
[Dervishes](Lore_Dervishes.md), sometimes called the **Dervishes of Rihad** after the [city](Lore_Rihad.md) in which they were based, were a respected group of spiritual [Redguard](Lore_Redguard.md) sword-dancers.

## Direnni
*Few families in [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) can boast so many famous figures, wielding so much power over the fate of so many. Our warriors and kings are stuff of legend, and it is not to dismiss their honor and their achievements to say you have heard quite enough about them.*
—Vorian Direnni, [De Rerum Dirennis](Lore_De_Rerum_Dirennis.md) The [Direnni](Lore_Direnni.md) (also known as **Clan Direnni** and **House Direnni**) are an aristocratic merchant clan of [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md)<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_nb1)</sup> (formerly [Aldmer](Lore_Aldmer.md)) whose members laid the foundation for modern [alchemy](Lore_Alchemy.md), [conjuration](Lore_Conjuration.md), and [enchanting](Lore_Enchanting.md). The Direnni are most credited as being the [Elven](Lore_Mer.md) ancestors of the [Bretons](Lore_Breton.md), a race produced by their intermingling with the [Nedic](Lore_Nede.md) [Druids of Galen](Lore_Druids_of_Galen.md) for centuries during the [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md). The Direnni established themselves as a powerful sovereignty referred to as the [Direnni Hegemony](Lore_Direnni_Hegemony.md) which rose to prominence around [1E 355](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_355), but some consider their rule in the years leading up to its establishment as part of the Direnni Hegemony as well. The Hegemony fractured around [1E 498](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_498), with one source claiming that the Direnni remained dominant until the middle of the First Era, during which the whole of High Rock was commonly called the Direnni Hegemony. At its peak, this hegemony stretched from all of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md) into large parts of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) and [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md).

## Dissident Priests
The [Dissident Priests](Lore_Dissident_Priests.md) are a secretive cult consisting of [Tribunal Temple](Lore_Tribunal_Temple.md) members who disputed the Temple's dogmatic foundations and question the process of the [Tribunal](Lore_Tribunal.md)'s elevation to godhood. They disputed Temple doctrine and were uneasy about the practices of the [Ordinators](Lore_Ordinators.md). One of the chief disputes between the Temple and the Dissident Priests was that the Temple hid the truth from its followers. The Dissident Priests' outlined their beliefs in the book *[Progress of Truth](Lore_Progress_of_Truth.md)*.

## Divine Prosecution
The [Divine Prosecution](Lore_Divine_Prosecution.md) are a state-level law enforcement organization responsible for enforcing both secular and religious law, ensuring [Altmeri](Lore_Altmer.md) social and cultural rules are adhered to. Under the [First Aldmeri Dominion](Lore_Aldmeri_Dominion.md), they were a division of the [Thalmor](Lore_Thalmor.md),<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_nb1)</sup> and were the highest authority of law and order on [Summerset Isle](Lore_Summerset_Isle.md), second only to the Queen and her Royal Court. They target what they perceive to be heresy, including [Daedra](Lore_Daedra.md) worship. The Divine Prosecution are wary of outsiders, but were known to have deputized skilled adventurers to handle dangerous threats after the island of Summerset was opened to outsiders by Queen [Ayrenn](Lore_Ayrenn.md) circa [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582).

## Doomdriven Clan
The [Doomdriven Clan](Lore_Doomdriven_Clan.md) is a [Dremora](Lore_Dremora.md) clan in service to [Malacath](Lore_Malacath.md) based in [Ashpit](Lore_Ashpit.md).

The Doomdriven are most commonly found as marshals and commanders to the [Orcish](Lore_Orc.md) spirit-legions of the Ashpit. They also, occassionaly perfrom the duties of emmissaries of the [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Prince.md) Malacath, and send his word to his followers in [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md).

## Doomfang Clan
The [Doomfang Clan](Lore_Doomfang_Clan.md) was a [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachman.md) [clan](Lore_Reachman_Clans.md) that inhabited [the Reach](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:The_Reach) and occupied the Dwemer ruin of [Bthardamz](Lore_Bthardamz.md) in the early 4th Era. They were known for their adaptability and survival skills. Doomfang Clan had skilled alchemists, capable of creating poisonous vapors among its ranks and utilized [Dwemer Animunculi](Lore_Dwemer_Animunculi.md).

## Dov-rha Axethanes
[Dov-rha Axethanes](Lore_Dov-rha_Axethanes.md) were a group of elite warriors who served as guards and champions to the kings of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) in the period between the height of [First Empire of the Nords](Lore_First_Empire_of_the_Nords.md) and the last years of the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md). It was theorized that some members of the Dov-rha Axethanes were powerful [Tongues](Lore_Tongues.md), who wielded [thu'um](Lore_Thu%27um.md) in battle. Dov-rha warriors or Dov-rha thanes were occasionally mentioned in the ancient Nord chronicles. Their name originates from the Nordic word for Dragon - dov-rha.

Sometime around [1E 2260](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_2260), some members of the group joined [All Flags Navy](Lore_All_Flags_Navy.md) and sailed to Thras to fight the [Sload](Lore_Sload.md).

High-rank members of the group were known to wear armor made of [dragonhide](Lore_Dragon.md). Such equipment was occasionally awarded by the rulers of Skyrim to their bravest warriors and was extremely durable. According to some scholars, their equipment could be a gift from the Dragons themselves.

## Dragon Cult
The [Dragon Cult](Lore_Dragon_Cult.md) (also known as the **Atmoran Dragon Cult** or **Cult of the Dragon Priests**) began as a sect within the traditions of animal worship brought by [Atmorans](Lore_Atmora.md) to [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). Certain scholars believe these were "totem animals" for the modern [Divines](Lore_Nine_Divines.md); in which case, worship of the dragon corresponded to worship of [Akatosh](Lore_Akatosh.md). Dragons were revered more than any other, and they were comfortable in assuming positions as god-kings over men. Their servants, the [dragon priests](Lore_Dragon_Priest.md), kept the peace between dragons and men, and their power was so great that uttering any word for "dragon" was forbidden to all mankind except them. They made laws for the society of men, and were on par with kings. Grand temples were built to honor the dragons and appease them in life and death, many of which survive as [draugr](Lore_Draugr.md) -infested ruins today.

Some time during or soon after the migrations to Tamriel, the dragon cult began to assert more influence and become much more malevolent. From their capital [Bromjunaar](Lore_Labyrinthian.md) in modern-day [Hjaalmarch](Lore_Hjaalmarch.md), they ruled [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) with an iron fist, effectively enslaving the populace. What led to this change was lost to historians, theories holding either a particular dragon, a series of weak kings, or an ambitious dragon priest caused the shift in the Cult's disposition. Men eventually rebelled in the late [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md), leading to the ancient [Dragon War](Lore_Dragon_War.md).

Men, with the help of several dragons, eventually secured victory with the defeat of Alduin. The dragon priests were overthrown and dragons were slaughtered in large numbers before fleeing to remote areas. Though they had lost their god-kings and were cast out of mainstream [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) society, the dragon cult managed to adapt and survive for centuries. Whenever they could lay hands on the remains of a dragon, they would build a tomb for it known as a "dragon mound", a practice they maintained for centuries after the war. They believed that one day the dragons would rise again and reward the faithful.

When the priests of the Eight Divines arrived in Skyrim in the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md), they found it very difficult to convert the Nords, in part because the Nords had abandoned the worship of the dragon along with the dragon cult. Thus, they only knew of the Great Dragon, Akatosh, as the [elven](Lore_Mer.md) god [Auriel](Lore_Auriel.md), whom they despised as a demon. The missionaries were able to allay some concerns by claiming that Alduin and those who followed him had acted against the wishes of Akatosh, and it was his intervention that led some dragons to assist men against their brethren. The dragon cult was eventually driven extinct, surviving only in the form of draugr who continue to prowl ancient ruins. The last known holdouts were discovered and besieged in the monastery of [Forelhost](Lore_Forelhost.md) in the mountains of [the Rift](Lore_The_Rift.md) by the forces of [High King Harald](Lore_Harald.md), eventually committing mass suicide in [1E 140](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_140).

## Dragonknights
The [Dragonknights](Lore_Dragonknights.md) (or **Dragon Knights**), also known as the **Children of the Mundus**, were followers of a new martial tradition that emerged during the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md) of the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), originating from the dispersed [Akaviri](Lore_Akavir.md) [Dragonguard](Lore_Dragonguard.md). They were skillful masters-at-arms taught by a former member of the Dragonguard, whose name was lost to history, only known as the Grandmaster. He took it upon himself to ensure that the martial and mystical arts of the old Akaviri would survive into the new and turbulent Second Era. However, he would teach his skills only on condition that those he taught would go on to teach others. Their abilities were said to descend from the powers of [dragons](Lore_Dragon.md). Although initially, arts of the Dragonknights were of Akaviri origins, the art was relatively widespread among various races of Tamriel as of Second Era.

Dragonknights were particularly skilled at manipulating fire, and could wreathe themselves in it completely without being harmed. They were known to channel the energy of the earth, fire, and molten rock associated with the powers of the very [heart](Lore_Heart_of_Lorkhan.md) of the [Mundus](Lore_Mundus.md). Their martial magic, known as Ardent Flame was fearsome art that pounds, shatters and physically alters the world around the caster. It was described as "Dragon magic" and was used to set foes afire, create flaming lassos, wreathe casters in a cloak of flame, and even breathe fire or poison similar to the legendary dragons. However, skeptics like [Gabrielle Benele](Lore_Gabrielle_Benele.md), a representative of the [Mages Guild](Lore_Mages_Guild.md), considered it to instead be a branch of [Destruction Magic](Lore_Destruction.md) (as defined by [Shad Astula](Lore_Shad_Astula.md) academy).

## Dragonborn
A [Dragonborn](Lore_Dragonborn.md) (or **Dovahkiin** in [Dragon Language](Lore_Dragon_Language.md)) is a mortal blessed with the Blood and soul of a [dragon](Lore_Dragon.md) by [Akatosh](Lore_Akatosh.md), the Father of Dragons and chief of the [Divines](Lore_Nine_Divines.md). Some sources claim that Dragonborn are fragments of Akatosh's soul and share this status with Alduin and possibly all of Dragonkind. Those with the blessing have an extraordinary aptitude in the use of the [thu'um](Lore_Thu%27um.md), being able to absorb knowledge of shouts directly from the souls of slain dragons. This ability breeds fear and hatred in dragons, as the removal of their soul severs their immortality and renders them beyond the reach of any [necromancy](Lore_Necromancy.md). The first known Dragonborn was [Miraak](Lore_Miraak.md), a [dragon priest](Lore_Dragon_Priest.md) of the [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md) who used the thu'um in an unsuccessful revolt against his masters. However, the title itself is most often associated with the "Dragonborn Emperors" of Tamriel, who were in a divine covenant with Akatosh which maintains the barriers between [Mundus](Lore_Mundus.md) and [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md).

## Dragonclaw Clan
[Dragonclaw Clan](Lore_Dragonclaw_Clan.md), also known as **Dragonclaws** was a [clan](Lore_Reachman_Clans.md) of [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md) that lived in during the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). Members of the clan participated in a tournament at the [Dragonstar Arena](Lore_Dragonstar_Arena.md), an inter- [planar](Lore_Planes_of_Existence.md) arena complex devoted to [Boethiah](Lore_Boethiah.md).

## Dreadhorn Clan
The [Dreadhorn Clan](Lore_Dreadhorn_Clan.md) was a [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md) group of the [Keptu](Lore_Keptu.md) origins, that was active in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582). They made an alliance with powerful [minotaur](Lore_Minotaur.md) warlord [Domihaus the Bloody-Horned](Lore_Domihaus.md). After forming the alliance they uncovered the long forgotten [Bloodroot Forge](Lore_Bloodroot_Forge.md) and besieged [Falkreath](Lore_Falkreath.md). Many of the members of the clan went through arcane ritual that empowered them and turned into powerful warriors known as [Blood Forged](Lore_Blood-Forged.md). They worshipped [Hircine](Lore_Hircine.md), made pacts with [Cernunnon](Lore_Cernunnon.md) and utilized magic related to [Kyne](Lore_Kyne.md).

## Dremora Clan
The [Dremora clan](Lore_Dremora_Clan.md) (also styled **Clan Dremora**) is a [Daedric](Lore_Daedra.md) clan led by [Imago Storm](Lore_Imago_Storm.md). It is in the service of [Clan Dagon](Lore_Clan_Dagon.md), led by [Mehrunes Dagon](Lore_Mehrunes_Dagon.md). The clan is based in the [Havoc Wellhead](Lore_Havoc_Wellhead.md). It represents the principle of destruction as evolution, aspiring to arts and powers of ever-increasing potency and aesthetic refinement. The [Dremora](Lore_Dremora.md) have not always been in the service of Dagon, and indeed individuals have come to serve many [Daedric Princes](Lore_Daedric_Princes.md).

Along with [Shardai Clan](Lore_Shardai_Clan.md) and [Xivilai's Clan](Lore_Xivilai%27s_Clan.md), the Dremora clan aided Dagon in his invasion of the [Battlespire](Lore_Battlespire.md) during the [Imperial Simulacrum](Lore_Imperial_Simulacrum.md). However, Dagon neglected to heed the counsel of Imago Storm, who advised against accepting the aid of the clanless [Seducers](Lore_Mazken.md). Storm viewed Dagon's tolerance of the antics of [Faydra Shardai](Lore_Faydra_Shardai.md) and [Xivilai Moath](Lore_Xivilai_Moath.md), along with his acceptance of the Seducers, as an unfortunate divergence from his otherwise prudent policies. He saw the invasion as a failed move, and allied himself with an [apprentice](Lore_Hero.md) from the Battlespire in order to restore Clan Dagon to its normal stability following the unnecessary invasion of the [Shade Perilous](Lore_Shade_Perilous.md). He supplied the apprentice with the protection of the Dremora clan, along with the incantory neonymics of Faydra, Xivilai, and Dagon. The apprentice tricked Xivilai and successfully banished Faydra and Dagon to the [Void](Lore_Void.md), which allowed Storm to take control of Clan Dagon and relinquish its hold on several realms. This ultimately resulted in the destruction of the Battlespire.

## Dren
The [Dren](Lore_Dren.md) family are a noble and prominent clan of [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) in the [Great House Hlaalu](Lore_House_Hlaalu.md). Its members have held high positions across [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md), and even across [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). Two of its most well-known members include [Vedam Dren](Lore_Vedam_Dren.md), the Duke of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md) in the late Third Era and [Narsis Dren](Lore_Narsis_Dren.md), the famed explorer from the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md). The family historically owned the **Dren Plantation**, a [netch](Lore_Netch.md) farm on the strip of land between [Lakes Amaya](Lore_Lake_Amaya_(Vvardenfell).md) and [Hairan](Lore_Lake_Hairan.md), in the [Ascadian Isles](Lore_Ascadian_Isles.md).

## Driladan Clan
The [Driladan Clan](Lore_Driladan_Clan.md) is a group of [Bosmer](Lore_Bosmer.md) that lived in eastern [Greenshade](Lore_Greenshade.md), in the province of [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md) and the general vicinity of [Marbruk](Lore_Marbruk.md). Before the city was built, the clan lived in the eponymous Driladan Pass north of Marbruk and south of [Whisper Grove](Lore_Whisper_Grove.md).

## Drothmeri Army
The **Drothmeri Army** was an army of mercenaries led by renegade [Telvanni](Lore_Telvanni.md) Arch-Mage [Frathen Drothan](Lore_Frathen_Drothan.md). The army was assembled in secret on the border between [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) and [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md) with the goal of destroying the [Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md). Most residents in the hidden Drothmeri village were [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md), although some [Khajiit](Lore_Khajiit.md) and [Argonian](Lore_Argonian.md) laborers were also employed. The Drothmeri Army was mostly wiped out at [Sundercliff Watch](Lore_Sundercliff_Watch.md) while Drothan was trying to excavate [Mehrunes' Razor](Lore_Mehrunes%27_Razor.md).

## Drublog Clan
The [Drublog Clan](Lore_Drublog_Clan.md) is a faction of [Wood Orcs](Lore_Wood_Orcs.md) that live in northern [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md). They are the largest tribe of Wood Orcs in [Malabal Tor](Lore_Malabal_Tor.md) and are split between sub-clans that maintain several villages across the region such as Bloodtoil Valley, Dra'bul, and their largest settlement Jathsogur. The Drublog are a warrior clan that seek to prove themselves and value strength. Though some would say that the [Bosmer](Lore_Bosmer.md) look down on the Drublog, they have lived together for generations and in times of war, they fought side by side.

## Dumonte
The [Dumonte](Lore_Dumonte.md) family is an old and famous [Breton](Lore_Breton.md) line known for having a considerable familial connection with the Clan [Direnni](Lore_Direnni.md) of [Balfiera](Lore_Balfiera.md). During the [Three Banners War](Lore_Three_Banners_War.md), in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582) they were known to live in [Gavaudon](Lore_Gavaudon.md), a region in central [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md), within the larger region of [Stormhaven](Lore_Stormhaven.md).