# Factions E

[Overview](Lore_Factions.md) | [A](Lore_Factions_A.md) [B](Lore_Factions_B.md) [C](Lore_Factions_C.md) [D](Lore_Factions_D.md) E [F](Lore_Factions_F.md) [G](Lore_Factions_G.md) [H](Lore_Factions_H.md) [I](Lore_Factions_I.md) [J](Lore_Factions_J.md) [K](Lore_Factions_K.md) [L](Lore_Factions_L.md) [M](Lore_Factions_M.md) [N](Lore_Factions_N.md) [O](Lore_Factions_O.md) [P](Lore_Factions_P.md) [Q](Lore_Factions_Q.md) [R](Lore_Factions_R.md) [S](Lore_Factions_S.md) [T](Lore_Factions_T.md) [U](Lore_Factions_U.md) [V](Lore_Factions_V.md) [W](Lore_Factions_W.md) [X](Lore_Factions_X.md) Y [Z](Lore_Factions_Z.md)
---

## Eagleseer Clan
The [Eagleseer Clan](Lore_Eagleseer_Clan.md) is a prominent [clan](Lore_Reachman_Clans.md) of [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md) that lives in [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md), a region in western [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). The Eagleseers are a proud, warrior clan that tends to feud with other clans for whatever reason, and even nurture these feuds like how other clans might nurse their children. While most clans view outsiders with contempt and annoyance, the Eagleseers pay no mind and are generally friendly to those they do not quarrel with. They view outsiders as unworthy of a good Reach feud. For ages, the Eagleseers have been enemies of the [Six-Ford Clan](Lore_Six-Ford_Clan.md) and vice versa, and it dates back to their foundation in years long past.

## East Empire Company
The [East Empire Company](Lore_East_Empire_Company.md) (**EEC**), also known as the **East Empire Trading Company** (**EETC**) or the **Imperial Trading Company**, is an [Imperial](Lore_Third_Empire.md) merchant organization. The Company has a monopoly on multiple trade goods, including [raw ebony](Lore_Ebony.md), [raw glass](Lore_Malachite.md), [Stalhrim](Lore_Stalhrim.md), [Dwemer artifacts](Lore_Dwemer.md), and [flin](Lore_Alcoholic_Beverages.md#Flin). It controlled the import and export of multiple goods to and from [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md), like [kwama](Lore_Kwama.md) eggs, [marshmerrow](Lore_Marshmerrow.md) pulp, [saltrice](Lore_Saltrice.md), and Telvanni bug musk. It was commissioned by the [Emperor](Lore_Emperor.md) and is controlled by a group of individuals he appointed, which, in addition to the Company's wealth, makes it relatively powerful, with its influence having affected even the administration of the Duke of Vvardenfell.

## Ebonheart Pact
The [Ebonheart Pact](Lore_Ebonheart_Pact.md) was a military alliance between the [Great Houses](Lore_Great_House.md) [Dres](Lore_House_Dres.md), [Hlaalu](Lore_House_Hlaalu.md), [Indoril](Lore_House_Indoril.md), and [Redoran](Lore_House_Redoran.md) of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md), the Kingdom of Eastern [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), and the tribes of [Shadowfen](Lore_Shadowfen.md) and [Thornmarsh](Lore_Thornmarsh.md) in [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md) during the chaotic [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md) of the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). It vied with the [Aldmeri Dominion](Lore_Aldmeri_Dominion.md) and [Daggerfall Covenant](Lore_Daggerfall_Covenant.md) for control over the contested Ruby Throne in [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) during the [Three Banners War](Lore_Three_Banners_War.md). It was a creation of unlikely allies, who had long histories of strife between them, but united for mutual defense, first against [Akaviri](Lore_Akavir.md) invaders and later against the [Daedric](Lore_Daedra.md) cultists of [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md) in Cyrodiil. They aimed to wipe away the rash rule of the [Empire](Lore_Empire.md) and end once and for all mortals' entanglements with higher power from beyond [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md). The Pact was led by [Jorunn](Lore_Jorunn.md) the Skald-King, who headed the [Great Moot](Lore_Great_Moot.md), as well as the three [living gods](Lore_Tribunal.md) of the Dunmer.

## Elder Council
The [Elder Council](Lore_Elder_Council.md) (sometimes referred to as the **Imperial Council**, the **Imperial Elder Council**, the **Imperial Council of Elders**, or the **Elders of the Imperial Council**) is the premier administrative body of the [Cyrodilic](Lore_Third_Empire.md) government. The Council's actions are governed by the rules and procedures outlined in the Elder Council Charter. It typically convenes at the Elder Council Chamber in the lower floors of the [Imperial Palace](Lore_Imperial_Palace.md) in the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md). The leader of the Elder Council holds the title of High Chancellor, and a Chief Councilor is designated as his deputy. Just above the Elder Council in the hierarchy is the **Inner Council**, headed by the High Chancellor. The [Imperial Battlemages](Lore_Imperial_Battlemages.md) are often found in leadership positions on the Elder Council, and the core [Nibenay Valley](Lore_Nibenay.md) at [Cyrodiil City](Lore_Cyrodiil_City.md) is described the home of an "age-old aristocracy of battlemages," which has existed since the early [Alessian Empire](Lore_Alessian_Empire.md).

Though it theoretically merely helps the [Emperor](Lore_Emperor.md) govern by dealing with various details, the Council has proven capable of wrestling a substantial amount of authority away from the [Imperial](Lore_Empire.md) throne, and there is often a power struggle between the two. The Council has legislative authority, and may vote on and enact new laws they deem proper. However, the reigning Emperor retains the power of veto, a right famously exploited by [Uriel Septim VI](Lore_Uriel_Septim_VI.md) to restore the power of the Emperor when faced with an unruly Council.

When the Council is not in some sort of disagreement with an Emperor, its members are often looking for ways to curry favor with the Ruby Throne. Each member receives an amulet worth a small fortune which is specially crafted as a symbol of their office. As a prominent family in Cyrodiil garners more and more power and repute, people eventually start thinking it is only a matter of time before they obtain a representative on the Council, though it is not clear exactly how new Council members are appointed. Appointment is seen as both an honor and burden, though some nobles view it only as a means to obtain more power and influence.

## Eldertide Circle
The [Eldertide Circle](Lore_Eldertide_Circle.md) is one of the three prominent [Druidic Circles](Lore_Druids.md) in the [Systres Archipelago](Lore_Systres.md) and live in enclaves throughout the islands such as [Tuinh](Lore_Tuinh.md) in [Galen](Lore_Galen.md) and the [Coral Cliffs](Lore_Coral_Cliffs.md) in [Amenos](Lore_Amenos.md). They feuded with the Breton [coin-barons](Lore_Coin-barons.md) appointed by the [Reman Empire](Lore_Reman_Empire.md) in [1E 2704](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_2704). The Eldertide believe that the civilization of Man and Mer has chained nature down, and thus they seek to balance the natural world and mortal's greed by washing it away, metaphorically and physically.

## End of Times
The [End of Times](Lore_End_of_Times.md) was a popular suicide cult created in the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md) just before the [Oblivion Crisis](Lore_Oblivion_Crisis.md), active in the palace-city of [Mournhold](Lore_Mournhold.md) and led by a young Dunmer named Eno Romari. Romari claimed the End of Times to be a peaceful group devoted to relieving suffering and helping the troubled to find enlightenment through understanding of what is happening in the world and what is to come in the next. The cult prophesied that the [Tribunal](Lore_Tribunal_Temple.md) would lose their divine powers and that the [Daedra](Lore_Daedra.md) would pass through the gates of [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md) and invade [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). The cult's belief in a coming calamity by the [Daedra](Lore_Daedra.md) was proven when the [Oblivion Crisis](Lore_Oblivion_Crisis.md) came to pass at the closing of the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md).

## Erabenimsun
The [Erabenimsun Tribe](Lore_Erabenimsun_Tribe.md) is one of the four distinct [Ashlander](Lore_Ashlander.md) tribes of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md), the island district in the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). The Erabenimsun are the most prominent tribe of Ashlanders in the [Molag Amur](Lore_Molag_Amur.md) region and live in a permanent settlement, the **Erabenimsun Camp** deep in the hills of the wastelands. They are generally war-like and hardy folk that tend to have an intolerance for outlanders and even other Ashlanders. And although there is a portion of them that favor war and raiding, there is a sect of peace-loving Erabenimsun that live and hunt off the fat of the land.

## Euraxians
The [Euraxians](Lore_Euraxians.md) were a faction composed of mostly [Nibenese](Lore_Nibenay.md) mercenaries who were dedicated to [Queen Euraxia Tharn](Lore_Euraxia_Tharn.md) after she illegally took the throne of the kingdom of [Rimmen](Lore_Rimmen.md) in [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md) for herself. They were active during the middle of the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md) and were seen specially in the region of Elsweyr known as [Anequina](Lore_Anequina.md), the northern part of the [Khajiiti](Lore_Khajiit.md) homeland.

## Exiled Sun-Eaters
The [Exiled Sun-Eaters](Lore_Exiled_Sun-Eaters.md) of Numaneh were an exiled tribe of [Redguards](Lore_Redguard.md). Little is known about them, and as of [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), telling their tale was forbidden according to [the Unveiled Azadiyeh](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#The_Unveiled_Azadiyeh), the Songbird of [Satakalaam](Lore_Satakalaam.md), a storyteller, expert in old Redguard lore, and a [follower](Lore_Crown.md) the original [Yokudan](Lore_Yokuda.md) pantheon. They were listed alongside the [Ash'abah](Lore_Ash%27abah.md) and [Silverhoof Horsemen](Lore_Silverhoof_Horsemen.md) in response to the question about various isolated Redguard communities and tribes.

## Eyes of the Queen
The [Eyes of the Queen](Lore_Eyes_of_the_Queen.md), or simply the **Eyes**, were a personal guard and intelligence organization that served [Queen Ayrenn](Lore_Ayrenn.md) of the [First Aldmeri Dominion](Lore_Aldmeri_Dominion.md) during the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md). Though the Eyes were formally established in [2E 580](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_580) upon Ayrenn's accession to the throne, they existed as an underground agency working to secure Ayrenn's rise to power for many years beforehand. The Eyes served as an elite corps responsible directly to the Queen, and played a central role in suppressing the [Veiled Heritance](Lore_Veiled_Heritance.md), an Altmeri supremacist group that attempted to depose Ayrenn in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582). Operatives from the Eyes of the Queen often acted independently, doing things that they believed would be best for [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md).

## References