# Fjyron


Those moths are venerated and cultivated by the [Cult of the Ancestor Moth](Lore_Cult_of_the_Ancestor_Moth.md).<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-POTM-1)</sup> The Cult believes that these moths are animated by the loving spirits of the dearly departed.<sup>[[3]](#cite_note-AMS-3)</sup><sup>[[4]](#cite_note-MTCSC-4)</sup> According to the beliefs of the Cult of the Ancestor Moth, the moth and the soul are symbolic counterparts. They liken the soul, the [Aedric](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Aedra) essence at the core of every mortal, to the wings of the moth, consisting of vessels filled with the experiences of mortal existence. Upon release from life on [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md), they believe that a process of dissipation begins, during which the moths learn the song of a soul's fjyron. These souls are then shepherded under their care and protected from generation to generation. The fjyron must maintain a connection to the grand fabric of creation and to the scattered remnants of souls in all their destinations. Through this link, and with patient care, Moth Priests receive guidance from beyond the present and past, where time holds no meaning, allowing them to perceive the cosmic tapestry and its threads. The moths do not capture or consume the souls of the ancestors; instead, they convey to us what they have filtered, much like a chorus echoing the verses of a grand song, thus they represent a connection to the Aedra and the endless Aedric coil of mortal souls through the experiences of every mortal who has ever lived.<sup>[[2]](#cite_note-TDS-2)</sup><sup>[[5]](#cite_note-LAESMP-5)</sup>

This essence can be sung into the silk produced by the Ancestor Moths. When the silk is spun into cloth and embroidered with the genealogy of the appropriate ancestor, it creates garments of extraordinary power. Members of the Order of the Ancestor Moth honor and celebrate their ancestors, whose spirits are embodied in the Ancestor Moths, and possess the knowledge to weave this essence into their creations.<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-POTM-1)</sup> The tradition of weaving [Ancestor Silk](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Ancestor_Silk) originated with the early [Cyro-Nordic](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Cyro-Nord) tribes of the [Nibenay](Lore_Nibenay.md). Today, their descendants, the modern-day [Nibenese](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Nibenese), continue this sacred practice, creating vestments and other garments. The swishing of this material is said to produce a "resplendent ancestral chorus," which has inspired this ancient custom.<sup>[[6]](#cite_note-PGE1-6)</sup> The silk is highly prized throughout the Empire and is exported alongside other valuable goods.<sup>[[7]](#cite_note-TA-7)</sup> Some people pay weavers to craft shawls inscribed with their family trees, believing that these garments hold the memories of their ancestors.<sup>[[7]](#cite_note-TA-7)</sup> Monks of the higher orders in the Cult of the Ancestor Moth can bypass the magical rituals typically required to enchant this fabric and often choose to wear the moths around their necks and faces instead.<sup>[[6]](#cite_note-PGE1-6)</sup>

Sometimes, these swarms are affectionately given the pet name "fjyron" in reference to the essence they are believed to carry.<sup>[[3]](#cite_note-AMS-3)</sup>

*Herma-Mora and the Moth* is a text stating that [Hermaeus Mora](Lore_Hermaeus_Mora.md) sought to learn the fjyrons of the souls shepherded by the Ancestor Moths in order to learn how to read the [Elder Scrolls](Lore_Elder_Scrolls.md). Sister Chana Nirine of the Order provided this text along with the statement that Ancestor Moths do not speak to [Daedra](Lore_Daedra.md).<sup>[[5]](#cite_note-LAESMP-5)</sup>

## See Also

### Books
- ***[Loremaster's Archive - Elder Scrolls & Moth Priests](Lore_Loremaster%27s_Archive_-_Elder_Scrolls_%26_Moth_Priests.md)*** by [Sister Chana Nirine](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Sister_Chana) — Sister Chana answers questions about Elder Scrolls and the Cult of the Ancestor Moth
- ***[Meet the Character - Sister Chana](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Meet_the_Character_-_Sister_Chana)*** by [Sister Terran Arminus](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Sister_Terran_Arminus) — A recommendation letter for an initiate from a senior member of the Order
- ***[Pension of the Ancestor Moth](Lore_Pension_of_the_Ancestor_Moth.md)*** — A Temple novice's initiatory pamphlet on the Cult of the Ancestor Moth
- ***[The Distributed Soul](Lore_The_Distributed_Soul.md)*** by [Abbot Crassius Viria](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Abbot_Crassius_Viria) — An insight into the relationship between souls and moths

## References
1. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-POTM_1-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-POTM_1-1)***</sup><sup>***[c](#cite_ref-POTM_1-2)***</sup> [*Pension of the Ancestor Moth*](Lore_Pension_of_the_Ancestor_Moth.md)
2. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-TDS_2-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-TDS_2-1)***</sup> [*The Distributed Soul*](Lore_The_Distributed_Soul.md) — [Abbot Crassius Viria](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Abbot_Crassius_Viria)
3. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-AMS_3-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-AMS_3-1)***</sup> [Ancestor Moth Swarm](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Ancestor_Moth_Swarm)'s pet name in [ESO](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Online)
4. [^](#cite_ref-MTCSC_4-0) [*Meet the Character - Sister Chana*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Meet_the_Character_-_Sister_Chana) — [Sister Terran Arminus](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Sister_Terran_Arminus)
5. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-LAESMP_5-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-LAESMP_5-1)***</sup> [*Loremaster's Archive - Elder Scrolls & Moth Priests*](Lore_Loremaster%27s_Archive_-_Elder_Scrolls_%26_Moth_Priests.md) — [Sister Chana Nirine](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Sister_Chana)
6. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-PGE1_6-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-PGE1_6-1)***</sup> [*Pocket Guide to the Empire, 1st Edition: Cyrodiil*](Lore_Pocket_Guide_to_the_Empire,_1st_Edition_Cyrodiil.md) — [Imperial Geographical Society](Lore_Imperial_Geographical_Society.md), [2E 864](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_864)
7. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-TA_7-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-TA_7-1)***</sup> [Ancestor-Silk Shawl](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Treasures_A#Ancestor-Silk_Shawl) item description in [ESO](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Online)