# Merethic Era

---
All Events | [Only Major Events](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Merethic_Era_Major)
---
**Note:** The Merethic Era, also known as the **Merethic Age**,<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-OBLecture-1)</sup> **Mythic Age**,<sup>[[2]](#cite_note-OBMankar-2)</sup> **Mythic Era**,<sup>[[3]](#cite_note-TAA-3)</sup><sup>[[4]](#cite_note-TM-4)</sup><sup>[[5]](#cite_note-PGE3All-5)</sup> **Mythic Times**,<sup>[[6]](#cite_note-OBGen Dialogue-6)</sup> the **Era of Myths**,<sup>[[7]](#cite_note-ONMalana-7)</sup> and the **days of myth**<sup>[[8]](#cite_note-TGTL-8)</sup> is a period with few known, exact dates, and some of the events below may be misplaced in the general narrative. The era is dated backwards from Year Zero of the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md) (the traditional [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) Merethic dating), which is marked by the founding of the [Camoran Dynasty](Lore_Camoran_Dynasty.md).<sup>[[9]](#cite_note-BTAOM-9)</sup> The [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md) had a method of Merethic dating, abbreviated P.D., but how it relates to the Nordic method is unknown.<sup>[[10]](#cite_note-Co N-10)</sup><sup>[[11]](#cite_note-Ao DL-11)</sup> The [Akaviri](Lore_Akaviri.md) [Dragonguard](Lore_Dragonguard.md) recognized a Merethic dating system in the Old Calendar.<sup>[[12]](#cite_note-Aot D-12)</sup> [Yokuda](Lore_Yokuda.md) also had an old way of reckoning which included the Merethic Era.<sup>[[13]](#cite_note-Dt S-13)</sup><sup>[[14]](#cite_note-RHa H-14)</sup>

## Early Merethic Era
ME 2500 — [Direnni Tower](Lore_Adamantine_Tower.md) constructed - The latest archaeological study of the Direnni Tower on the Isle of [Balfiera](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Balfiera) in [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md) has dated its construction to around ME 2500, the earliest known date in [Aldmeri](Lore_Aldmer.md) and [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) history, making it the oldest known structure in [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md).<sup>[[9]](#cite_note-BTAOM-9)</sup><sup>[[15]](#cite_note-PGE1High-15)</sup>
- The [et'Ada](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Et%27Ada) hold their [Convention](Lore_Convention.md) at this tower, setting the laws of [Mundus](Lore_Mundus.md) and ending the [Dawn Era](Lore_Dawn_Era.md).<sup>[[4]](#cite_note-TM-4)</sup>

The days of the [beastfolk](Lore_Beastfolk.md) - Aboriginal beastpeoples (ancestors of the [Khajiit](Lore_Khajiit.md), [Argonian](Lore_Argonian.md), [Orcs](Lore_Orc.md) and other beastfolk) live in preliterate communities throughout [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md).<sup>[[9]](#cite_note-BTAOM-9)</sup> Each have their own accounts of this time period.<sup>[[16]](#cite_note-MWArtisa-16)</sup> Scholars later surmise that, at this time, the Khajiit have the predominant culture in southern Tamriel.<sup>[[17]](#cite_note-PGE3Sug-17)</sup>

Early [Kothringi](Lore_Kothringi.md) culture - Later findings date the first Kothringi metalwork and cultural exchange with the [Argonians](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Argonians) of Shadowfen in this time,<sup>[[18]](#cite_note-Silver Wish Medallion-18)</sup><sup>[[19]](#cite_note-Nest Of SHadows-19)</sup> making them the first known human culture of Tamriel.

The arrival of the [elves](Lore_Mer.md) on the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md) - The [Aldmer](Lore_Aldmer.md) leave doomed and now-lost [Aldmeris](Lore_Aldmeris.md) (also known as 'Old Ehlnofey') and settle on the isle [Auridon](Lore_Auridon.md). According to legend, the Aldmer folk hero High Lord [Torinaan](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Torinaan) 'the Foresailor' arrives at the location now known as Nine-Prow Landing and founds the city of [Firsthold](Lore_Firsthold.md) south of it.<sup>[[20]](#cite_note-Lay Of Firsthold-20)</sup><sup>[[21]](#cite_note-21)</sup>

The earliest known depictions of [Clavicus Vile](Lore_Clavicus_Vile.md) - Crude, hand-carved idols and ancient cave paintings depict Clavicus Vile, [his mask](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Masque_of_Clavicus_Vile), and [Barbas](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Barbas).<sup>[[22]](#cite_note-TVTo B-22)</sup>

## Middle Merethic Era
The search for [Aldmeris](Lore_Aldmeris.md) - Aldmeri explorers, notably [Topal the Pilot](Lore_Topal_the_Pilot.md), explore and chart Tamriel's sea-lanes. From Summerset, Topal sails north around Tamriel, then up the [River Niben](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:River_Niben) deep into central Cyrodiil, where he acquires the Eight Islands (the site of the White-Gold Tower) from the native taloned "Bird men" as gifts for giving them the secret of literacy.<sup>[[23]](#cite_note-FOTN-23)</sup>
- Aldmeri explorers map the coasts of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md), building the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md) High Elven wizard towers at [Ald Redaynia](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Ald_Redaynia), [Bal Fell](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Bal_Fell), [Tel Aruhn](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Tel_Aruhn), and [Tel Mora](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Tel_Mora) in [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md).<sup>[[9]](#cite_note-BTAOM-9)</sup>
- The [Adamantine Tower](Lore_Adamantine_Tower.md) is rediscovered by [Direnni Cygnus](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Direnni_Cygnus), progenitor of the [Direnni](Lore_Direnni_Hegemony.md), an Aldmeri clan that rose to prominence in the early [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md).<sup>[[24]](#cite_note-Once-24)</sup><sup>[[9]](#cite_note-BTAOM-9)</sup>

The [Aldmeri](Lore_Aldmer.md) Colonies on Tamriel - First colonies are distributed primarily on the Summerset Isles and widely along the entire coast of Tamriel.<sup>[[25]](#cite_note-PGE3Cyrodiil-25)</sup> Later, inland settlements are founded primarily in fertile lowlands in southwest and central Tamriel.<sup>[[9]](#cite_note-BTAOM-9)</sup> According to Vingalmo's 'Treatise on the Altmer Antecedent' the early Aldmer and Dwemer are significantly more sophisticated than other cultures, displaying power beyond what could be expected of the time.<sup>[[26]](#cite_note-NOT-26)</sup>
- The Aldmeri settlers of Cyrodiil would later become the first [Ayleids](Lore_Ayleid.md)<sup>[[25]](#cite_note-PGE3Cyrodiil-25)</sup><sup>[[27]](#cite_note-PGE3Summerset-27)</sup> and remain subservient to the King of Alinor until at least [1E 1](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_1), when the White-Gold Tower is established as an independent city-state.<sup>[[9]](#cite_note-BTAOM-9)</sup>
- The literate and technologically advanced Aldmeri cultures drive the relatively primitive [beastfolk](Lore_Beastfolk.md) into the jungles, marshes, mountains, and wastelands.

The [Crystal Tower](Lore_Crystal_Tower.md) - The Crystal Tower is built in [Summerset Isle](Lore_Summerset_Isle.md).<sup>[[9]](#cite_note-BTAOM-9)</sup>

Rise of the [Ayleids](Lore_Ayleids.md) - The [feathered men](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Bird_Men) of central [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) disappear from history,<sup>[[9]](#cite_note-BTAOM-9)</sup><sup>[[23]](#cite_note-FOTN-23)</sup> only to be replaced by the [Ayleids](Lore_Ayleids.md) (who are quite fond of adorning themselves in feathers).<sup>[[28]](#cite_note-TSOP-28)</sup><sup>[[29]](#cite_note-TLKOTA-29)</sup> These Wild Elves, also known as the Heartland High Elves, preserve the [Dawn Era](Lore_Dawn_Era.md) [magicks](Lore_Magic.md) and [language of the Ehlnofey](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Ehlnofex_Languages). Ostensibly a tribute-land to the High King of [Alinor](Lore_Alinor_(city).md), Cyrodiil is very isolated from the [Altmeri](Lore_Altmer.md) leadership.<sup>[[9]](#cite_note-BTAOM-9)</sup>

The [White-Gold Tower](Lore_White-Gold_Tower.md) - The White-Gold Tower is built in [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md).<sup>[[9]](#cite_note-BTAOM-9)</sup>

## Late Middle Merethic Era
The Dwemer expand - The Dwemer, a free-thinking, reclusive Elven clan devoted to the secrets of science, engineering, and alchemy, establish underground cities and communities in the mountain range separating modern [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) and modern-day [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md) (later known as the [Velothi Mountains](Lore_Velothi_Mountains.md)).<sup>[[9]](#cite_note-BTAOM-9)</sup>

The Transformation of Trinimac - According to [Altmeri](Lore_Altmer.md) tradition, a great battle occurs between [Trinimac](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Trinimac) and [Boethiah](Lore_Boethiah.md) as a result of the [Velothi](Lore_Veloth.md) dissident movement. Trinimac is consumed, and returns later as [Malacath](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Malacath). His followers become the [Orcs](Lore_Orc.md). The followers of Veloth and Boethiah become the [Chimer](Lore_Chimer.md), who migrate to their promised land of [Resdayn](Lore_Resdayn.md).<sup>[[23]](#cite_note-FOTN-23)</sup><sup>[[30]](#cite_note-TCO-30)</sup> Some traditions trace these events back to the [Dawn Era](Lore_Dawn_Era.md).<sup>[[31]](#cite_note-TA-31)</sup><sup>[[32]](#cite_note-TTNOO-32)</sup>

High [Velothi](Lore_Veloth.md) Culture - High Velothi Culture thrives in [Resdayn](Lore_Resdayn.md). The [Chimer](Lore_Chimer.md) become dynamic, ambitious, long-lived Elven clans devoted to fundamentalist ancestor worship. Despising the secular culture and profane practices of the Dwemer, the Chimer also covet their lands and resources, and for centuries provoke them with minor raids and territorial disputes.<sup>[[9]](#cite_note-BTAOM-9)</sup>

## Late Merethic Era
Fall of High [Velothi](Lore_Veloth.md) Culture - Velothi high culture disappears on [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md). The earliest known [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md) Freehold colonies are constructed. The Velothi degenerate into tribal cultures, which, in time, evolve into the modern [Great Houses](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Great_Houses) of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md), or persist as the [Ashlander tribes](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Ashlanders). The only surviving traces of this tribal culture are scattered Velothi towers and Ashlander nomads on Vvardenfell Island.<sup>[[9]](#cite_note-BTAOM-9)</sup>

[Altmeri](Lore_Altmer.md) abandonment - The original [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md) High Elven wizard towers along the coasts of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) are abandoned around this time.<sup>[[9]](#cite_note-BTAOM-9)</sup>

ME 1000 - 800 — Traces of the earliest [human](Lore_Man.md) settlements on [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) - Archaeologists later trace the earliest known human settlements in [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md), [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md) and [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) to around this time.<sup>[[33]](#cite_note-FC-33)</sup> For centuries, raiders cross the [Sea of Ghosts](Lore_Sea_of_Ghosts.md) to invade and settle in Tamriel.<sup>[[34]](#cite_note-PGE3Other-34)</sup> Men are soon predominant along the northern coasts.<sup>[[3]](#cite_note-TAA-3)</sup><sup>[[5]](#cite_note-PGE3All-5)</sup> Some scholars believe humans first began migrating to Tamriel in the middle of the Merethic Era.<sup>[[35]](#cite_note-TBMOP-35)</sup>

Earliest known interbreeding between High Rock's [Nedes](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Nede) and [Aldmer](Lore_Aldmer.md) - Some speculate that interbreeding between the Nedes and Aldmer had been happening for centuries by the time the Merethic Era ended.<sup>[[36]](#cite_note-LATD-36)</sup> Khosey's '[Tamrilean Tractates](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Tamrilean_Tractates)', written in the third century of the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md), is more restrictive on the timeline. According to it, a Nordic hunting party discovered the early Bretons who have been a product of interbreeding over ten generations between Nede and Aldmer.<sup>[[37]](#cite_note-PGE1High Rock-37)</sup><sup>[[nb 2]](#intnote_nb2)</sup>
- Whether Man or Mer came to High Rock first is debated in scholarly circles: some believe that Nedic civilization and their [Druid King](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Druid_King) were already established in the province when the Aldmer arrived,<sup>[[38]](#cite_note-MDBMM-38)</sup> while others claim that the Nedes arrived in High Rock afterwards, and encountered the elves gradually with a variety of reactions and outcomes.<sup>[[33]](#cite_note-FC-33)</sup><sup>[[39]](#cite_note-PGE3High-39)</sup><sup>[[UOL 1]](#cite_note-LSP:OAC-40)</sup>

Manmer, the earliest Bretons - [Asterie Bedel](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Asterie_Bedel) is perhaps the earliest recorded Breton, who was recorded to have created the artifact [Chrysamere](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Chrysamere) in the late Merethic Era.<sup>[[40]](#cite_note-LAIA-41)</sup>
- The earliest Bretons were known as the Manmer and were more elven in appearance than their modern counterparts.<sup>[[37]](#cite_note-PGE1High Rock-37)</sup><sup>[[35]](#cite_note-TBMOP-35)</sup>
- "[Druid](Lore_Druid.md)" as a distinct identity was fully realized shortly after the first Bretons came about. Druidic spellcraft is said to be the first truly Breton creation.<sup>[[41]](#cite_note-ONLOTB-42)</sup><sup>[[42]](#cite_note-ONWD-43)</sup>

Fundamental changes in Iron Orc civilization occur - After continued aggression from the [Nedes](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Nede) of [Craglorn](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Craglorn), the once peaceful and shamanistic society of the [Iron Orcs](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Iron_Orcs) changes into one of barbarism. Choosing Warriors, Miners and Smiths over their former peaceful jobs they now defended their homes and places of worship through almost bestial ways of warfare.<sup>[[43]](#cite_note-Oo T-44)</sup>

The Return - The proto- [Nords](Lore_Nord.md) in the final migrations from [Atmora](Lore_Atmora.md) settle in northern Tamriel. Nordic hero [Ysgramor](Lore_Ysgramor.md), leader of a great colonizing fleet to Tamriel, develops a runic transcription of Nordic speech based on elvish principles, and is the first human historian. Ysgramor's fleet lands at [Hsaarik Head](Lore_Hsaarik_Head.md) at the extreme northern tip of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md)'s Broken Cape and builds [Saarthal](Lore_Saarthal.md) nearby.<sup>[[9]](#cite_note-BTAOM-9)</sup> The elves drive the Men away during the [Night of Tears](Lore_Night_of_Tears.md), but Ysgramor soon returns with his [Five Hundred Companions](Lore_Companions.md) and establishes human dominance in modern-day Skyrim.<sup>[[9]](#cite_note-BTAOM-9)</sup><sup>[[26]](#cite_note-NOT-26)</sup><sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_nb1)</sup>

The wandering hero - An immortal hero, warrior, sorceror, and king variously known as [Pelinal Whitestrake](Lore_Pelinal_Whitestrake.md), Harrald Hairy Breeks, [Ysmir](Lore_Wulfharth.md), Hans the Fox, etc., wanders Tamriel, gathering armies, conquering lands, ruling, then abandoning his kingdoms to wander again.<sup>[[9]](#cite_note-BTAOM-9)</sup>

The [Doom Stones](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Doom_Stones) of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) - Scholars later assume the Doom Stones of Skyrim are placed throughout the land during this time.<sup>[[44]](#cite_note-SRDrevis-45)</sup>

[Kaalgrontiid](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Kaalgrontiid) and his dragons conquer Elsweyr - Believed by some to originate from Alduin's rage in [Atmora](Lore_Atmora.md) and [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), Kaalgrontiid and his dragon horde travel to Elsweyr<sup>[[45]](#cite_note-LADragons-46)</sup> then divided into sixteen kingdoms which they conquer.<sup>[[46]](#cite_note-ESOKaalgrontiid-47)</sup> The dragons were later tricked into imprisonment in the [Halls of Colossus](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Halls_of_Colossus) by the Khajiit hero [Khunzar-ri](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Khunzar-ri) and his companions, [Nurarion the Perfect](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Nurarion_the_Perfect), [Flinthild Demon-Hunter](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Flinthild_Demon-Hunter), [Anequina Sharp-Tongue](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Anequina_Sharp-Tongue), and [Cadwell the Betrayer](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Cadwell).<sup>[[47]](#cite_note-Kat D-48)</sup>

Dreams of [Sovngarde](Lore_Sovngarde.md) - Earliest known writings and stories emerge among the proto- [Nords](Lore_Nord.md) of a hidden, timeless place of eternal life known as Sovngarde, a magnificent Hall of Valor built by [Shor](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Shor) to honor the departed who prove their mettle in battle.<sup>[[48]](#cite_note-SAR-49)</sup>

The [Dragon War](Lore_Dragon_War.md) - At this time, the [dragons](Lore_Dragon.md) under [Alduin](Lore_Alduin.md) had claimed dominion over all [Mundus](Lore_Mundus.md), and presided over [man](Lore_Man.md) in [Atmora](Lore_Atmora.md) and then [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md).<sup>[[49]](#cite_note-Hrothgar-50)</sup> The [Nords](Lore_Nord.md) worship them as gods and build many temples dedicated to them.<sup>[[50]](#cite_note-SRFarengar-51)</sup> [Dragon Priests](Lore_Dragon_Priest.md), servants of their dragon overlords, become increasingly tyrannical, eventually causing men to rebel. Thousands of men die until a few dragons join their fight, when the tide turns in their favor. [Miraak](Lore_Miraak.md), a powerful dragon priest of Solstheim with a possible innate thu'um ability (an ability previously known only to dragons), comes into contact with Hermaeus Mora in exchange for his loyalty as his Champion. He teaches him a shout capable of mind-controlling people and dragons. Miraak begins using his powers to mind-bend dragons and kill many to absorb their souls (through a mysterious four-word thu'um), becoming the First Dragonborn. The three Nord heroes seek his help to stop Alduin, but Miraak refuses, wishing to destroy him alone.

Miraak is later defeated by another priest named Valhok after a terrible duel that separates Solstheim from the continent, but is saved by Hermaeus Mora who takes him to his Daedric realm. Alduin is banished and the Dragon Priests are overthrown. The remaining dragons are scattered,<sup>[[51]](#cite_note-TDW-52)</sup> their population decimated.<sup>[[52]](#cite_note-TBD-53)</sup>

The Narfinsel Schism - A centuries long civil war between the more conservative Aedra-worshiping Ayleid clans and the more decadent, vigorous clans that had adopted Daedra-worship begins. It will reach its climax in [1E 198](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_198) at the Scouring of [Wendelbek](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Wendelbek).<sup>[[53]](#cite_note-54)</sup>

ME 1 - Events in [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md) culminate in the founding of the [Camoran Dynasty](Lore_Camoran_Dynasty.md), [Year Zero of the First Era](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_0).<sup>[[9]](#cite_note-BTAOM-9)</sup>

## Miscellaneous Events
[The Towers](Lore_The_Towers.md) - The other Towers are built, including Orichalc, Green-Sap, and Snow Throat (also called the Snow Tower<sup>[[54]](#cite_note-TBOTD-55)</sup>).<sup>[[UOL 2]](#cite_note-56)</sup>

Magic from the sky - Travelers gather celestial minerals which are used to build many things, including the great Orrery at [Firsthold](Lore_Firsthold.md).<sup>[[55]](#cite_note-PGE3Arena-57)</sup><sup>[[56]](#cite_note-MFTS-58)</sup>

Wars of [Yokuda](Lore_Yokuda.md) - The Na-Totambu, the royalty of the Yokudans (ancient [Redguards](Lore_Redguard.md)), fight to a standstill among themselves to decide who will lead the charge against the [Lefthanded Elves](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Lefthanded_Elves). [Leki](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Leki) intervenes and a victor emerges. [Diagna](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Diagna), an avatar of the [Hoon Ding](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Hoon Ding), brings [orichalc](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Orichalcum) weapons to the Yokudans, which prove instrumental in defeating the elves.<sup>[[57]](#cite_note-VOF-59)</sup>

The Bosmer hunt down the Oddoak - Tasked by Y'ffre, the Bosmer hunt the shape-shifting beasts known as the [Oddoaks](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Oddoak).<sup>[[58]](#cite_note-Hollowbone Wind Chimes-60)</sup>

Aldmer try to reach Aetherius via Sunbirds - An Aldmeri Order tries to pierce the veil between Mundus and Aetherius to reach the latter. It is unknown if they succeeded.<sup>[[59]](#cite_note-Prismatic Sunbird Feather-61)</sup>

## Notes
- | [^](#note_nb1) | In *[TES V: Skyrim](Skyrim_Skyrim.md)*, [Kodlak Whitemane](Skyrim_Kodlak_Whitemane.md) says the Companions are "nearly 5000 years old", which would indicate that the Return occurred sometime in the last six centuries of the Merethic Era. Similarly, the memorial plaque for [High King Harald](Lore_Harald.md) in Windhelm proclaims him as 13th in the line of Ysgramor, which if referring to generations, would indicate Ysgramor being alive around the second century before the end of the Merethic era. |
| --- | --- |
- | [^](#note_nb2) | The 'Tamrilean Tractates' state that these Manmeri have been found around the time of High King [Vrage's](Lore_Vrage.md) coronation, which the '[Daggerfall Chronicles](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Books:The_Daggerfall_Chronicles)' date to [1E 222](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_222). The Tractates then state that one of Vrage's first actions as king was to start liberating their kinsmen in High Rock and that the Manmeri hunting party he has found was the product of ten generations of elven intermingling. Ten Generations would be around 250-300 years, placing the first known intermingling into the very late Merethic Era. |
| --- | --- |

## See Also
- ***[The Annotated Anuad](Lore_The_Annotated_Anuad.md)*** — Early religious book providing a simplified version of The Anuad creation myth from the Mythic Era
- ***[Before the Ages of Man](Lore_Before_the_Ages_of_Man.md)*** by [Aicantar of Shimerene](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Aicantar_of_Shimmerene) — Chronicles the major events of the Dawn and Merethic Eras
- ***[Frontier, Conquest](Lore_Frontier,_Conquest.md)*** by the [University of Gwylim Press](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#University_of_Gwylim_Press), [3E 344](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_344) — Details the presence of humans in Tamriel before the original Nordic conquests thought to bring humans to Tamriel
- ***[Pocket Guide to the Empire, 3rd Edition: All the Eras of Man, A Comprehensive History of our History](Lore_Pocket_Guide_to_the_Empire,_3rd_Edition_All_the_Eras_of_Man.md)*** by the [Imperial Geographical Society](Lore_Imperial_Geographical_Society.md)

## References
1. [^](#cite_ref-OBLecture_1-0) [University lectures](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:University_Lectures) in *[Oblivion](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Oblivion)*
2. [^](#cite_ref-OBMankar_2-0) [Mankar Camoran](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Mankar_Camoran)'s dialogue in *[Oblivion](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Oblivion)*
3. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-TAA_3-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-TAA_3-1)***</sup> [*The Annotated Anuad*](Lore_The_Annotated_Anuad.md)
4. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-TM_4-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-TM_4-1)***</sup> [*The Monomyth*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:The_Monomyth)
5. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-PGE3All_5-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-PGE3All_5-1)***</sup> [*Pocket Guide to the Empire, 3rd Edition: All the Eras of Man, A Comprehensive History of our History*](Lore_Pocket_Guide_to_the_Empire,_3rd_Edition_All_the_Eras_of_Man.md) — [Imperial Geographical Society](Lore_Imperial_Geographical_Society.md), [3E 432](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_432)
6. [^](#cite_ref-OBGen Dialogue_6-0) [Generic dialogue](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Generic_Dialogue#Upper_Class) in *[Oblivion](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Oblivion)*
7. [^](#cite_ref-ONMalana_7-0) [Malana](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Malana)'s dialogue in [ESO](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Online)
8. [^](#cite_ref-TGTL_8-0) [*Traveler's Guide to Leyawiin*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Traveler%27s_Guide_to_Leyawiin) — [Astinia Isauricus](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Astinia_Isauricus); published 1 Frost Fall, [2E 569](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_569)
9. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-BTAOM_9-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-BTAOM_9-1)***</sup><sup>***[c](#cite_ref-BTAOM_9-2)***</sup><sup>***[d](#cite_ref-BTAOM_9-3)***</sup><sup>***[e](#cite_ref-BTAOM_9-4)***</sup><sup>***[f](#cite_ref-BTAOM_9-5)***</sup><sup>***[g](#cite_ref-BTAOM_9-6)***</sup><sup>***[h](#cite_ref-BTAOM_9-7)***</sup><sup>***[i](#cite_ref-BTAOM_9-8)***</sup><sup>***[j](#cite_ref-BTAOM_9-9)***</sup><sup>***[k](#cite_ref-BTAOM_9-10)***</sup><sup>***[l](#cite_ref-BTAOM_9-11)***</sup><sup>***[m](#cite_ref-BTAOM_9-12)***</sup><sup>***[n](#cite_ref-BTAOM_9-13)***</sup><sup>***[o](#cite_ref-BTAOM_9-14)***</sup><sup>***[p](#cite_ref-BTAOM_9-15)***</sup><sup>***[q](#cite_ref-BTAOM_9-16)***</sup><sup>***[r](#cite_ref-BTAOM_9-17)***</sup><sup>***[s](#cite_ref-BTAOM_9-18)***</sup> [*Before the Ages of Man*](Lore_Before_the_Ages_of_Man.md) — [Aicantar of Shimerene](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Aicantar_of_Shimmerene)
10. [^](#cite_ref-Co N_10-0) [*Chronicles of Nchuleft*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Chronicles_of_Nchuleft) — An Anonymous Altmer
11. [^](#cite_ref-Ao DL_11-0) [*Antecedents of Dwemer Law*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Antecedents_of_Dwemer_Law)
12. [^](#cite_ref-Aot D_12-0) [*Annals of the Dragonguard*](Lore_Annals_of_the_Dragonguard.md) — [Brother Annulus](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Brother_Annulus)
13. [^](#cite_ref-Dt S_13-0) [*Divad the Singer*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Divad_the_Singer) — [Destri Melarg](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Destri_Melarg)
14. [^](#cite_ref-RHa H_14-0) [*Redguards, History and Heroes*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Redguards,_History_and_Heroes) — [Destri Melarg](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Destri_Melarg)
15. [^](#cite_ref-PGE1High_15-0) [*Pocket Guide to the Empire, 1st Edition: High Rock*](Lore_Pocket_Guide_to_the_Empire,_1st_Edition_High_Rock.md) — [Imperial Geographical Society](Lore_Imperial_Geographical_Society.md), [2E 864](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_864)
16. [^](#cite_ref-MWArtisa_16-0) [Artisa Arelas](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Morrowind:Artisa_Arelas)' dialogue in *[Morrowind](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Morrowind:Morrowind)*
17. [^](#cite_ref-PGE3Sug_17-0) [*Pocket Guide to the Empire, 3rd Edition: Sugar and Blood: the Cats of the South*](Lore_Pocket_Guide_to_the_Empire,_3rd_Edition_Sugar_and_Blood.md) — [Imperial Geographical Society](Lore_Imperial_Geographical_Society.md), [3E 432](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_432)
18. [^](#cite_ref-Silver Wish Medallion_18-0) [Silver Wish Medallion antiquity](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Shadowfen_Antiquities) codex entries by [Verita Numida](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Verita_Numida) and [Gabrielle Benele](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Gabrielle_Benele) in [ESO](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Online)
19. [^](#cite_ref-Nest Of SHadows_19-0) [Nest of Shadows antiquity](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Shadowfen_Antiquities) codex entry by [Ugron gro-Thumogin](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Ugron_gro-Thumog) [ESO](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Online)
20. [^](#cite_ref-Lay Of Firsthold_20-0) [*The Lay of Firsthold*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:The_Lay_of_Firsthold)
21. [^](#cite_ref-21) [*Auridon Explored, Chapter XII*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Auridon_Explored,_Chapter_XII) — [Fenlil the Wayfarer](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Fenlil_the_Wayfarer)
22. [^](#cite_ref-TVTo B_22-0) [*The Vile Truth of Barbas*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:The_Vile_Truth_of_Barbas) — [Pelagius Habor](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Pelagius_Habor), Council Daedrologist-in-Residence, [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md)
23. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-FOTN_23-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-FOTN_23-1)***</sup><sup>***[c](#cite_ref-FOTN_23-2)***</sup> [*Father Of The Niben*](Lore_Father_Of_The_Niben.md) — [Florin Jaliil](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Florin_Jaliil)
24. [^](#cite_ref-Once_24-0) [*Once*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Once) — [Beredalmo the Signifier](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Beredalmo_the_Signifier)
25. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-PGE3Cyrodiil_25-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-PGE3Cyrodiil_25-1)***</sup> [*Pocket Guide to the Empire, 3rd Edition: The Seat of Sundered Kings: Cyrodiil*](Lore_Pocket_Guide_to_the_Empire,_3rd_Edition_Cyrodiil.md) — [Imperial Geographical Society](Lore_Imperial_Geographical_Society.md), [3E 432](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_432)
26. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-NOT_26-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-NOT_26-1)***</sup> [*Night of Tears*](Lore_Night_of_Tears_(book).md) — [Dranor Seleth](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Dranor_Seleth)
27. [^](#cite_ref-PGE3Summerset_27-0) [*Pocket Guide to the Empire, 3rd Edition: The Blessed Isle: Alinor and the Summersets*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Pocket_Guide_to_the_Empire,_3rd_Edition_Summerset) — [Imperial Geographical Society](Lore_Imperial_Geographical_Society.md), [3E 432](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_432)
28. [^](#cite_ref-TSOP_28-0) [*The Song of Pelinal*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:The_Song_of_Pelinal)
29. [^](#cite_ref-TLKOTA_29-0) [*The Last King of the Ayleids*](Lore_The_Last_King_of_the_Ayleids.md) — [Herminia Cinna](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Herminia_Cinna)
30. [^](#cite_ref-TCO_30-0) [*The Changed Ones*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:The_Changed_Ones)
31. [^](#cite_ref-TA_31-0) [*The Anticipations*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:The_Anticipations) — Anonymous
32. [^](#cite_ref-TTNOO_32-0) [*The True Nature of Orcs*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:The_True_Nature_of_Orcs)
33. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-FC_33-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-FC_33-1)***</sup> [*Frontier, Conquest*](Lore_Frontier,_Conquest.md) — [University of Gwylim Press](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#University_of_Gwylim_Press), [3E 344](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_344)
34. [^](#cite_ref-PGE3Other_34-0) [*Pocket Guide to the Empire, 3rd Edition: Other Lands*](Lore_Pocket_Guide_to_the_Empire,_3rd_Edition_Other_Lands.md) — [Imperial Geographical Society](Lore_Imperial_Geographical_Society.md), [3E 432](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_432)
35. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-TBMOP_35-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-TBMOP_35-1)***</sup> [*The Bretons: Mongrels or Paragons?*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:The_Bretons__Mongrels_or_Paragons%3F) — [Phrastus of Elinhir](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Phrastus_of_Elinhir)
36. [^](#cite_ref-LATD_36-0) [*Loremaster's Archive - Tamriel's Dungeons*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Loremaster%27s_Archive_-_Tamriel%27s_Dungeons) — [Dhulef](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Dhulef)
37. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-PGE1High Rock_37-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-PGE1High Rock_37-1)***</sup> [*Pocket Guide to the Empire, 1st Edition: High Rock*](Lore_Pocket_Guide_to_the_Empire,_1st_Edition_High_Rock.md) — [Imperial Geographical Society](Lore_Imperial_Geographical_Society.md), [2E 864](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_864)
38. [^](#cite_ref-MDBMM_38-0) [*Modern Day Bretons: Man or Mer?*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Modern_Day_Bretons__Man_or_Mer%3F) — Vastyr Historian [Filibert Beauchamp](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Filibert_Beauchamp)
39. [^](#cite_ref-PGE3High_39-0) [*Pocket Guide to the Empire, 3rd Edition: The Sons and Daughter of the Direnni West: High Rock*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Pocket_Guide_to_the_Empire,_3rd_Edition_High_Rock) — [Imperial Geographical Society](Lore_Imperial_Geographical_Society.md), [3E 432](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_432)
40. [^](#cite_ref-LAIA_41-0) [*Loremaster's Archive - Infinite Archive*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Loremaster%27s_Archive_-_Infinite_Archive) — [Master Malkhest](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Malkhest)
41. [^](#cite_ref-ONLOTB_42-0) [*Legacy of the Bretons*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Legacy_of_the_Bretons) — [Stefan Mornard](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Stefan_Mornard)
42. [^](#cite_ref-ONWD_43-0) [*Wyrd and Druid*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Wyrd_and_Druid) — [Archdruid Barnabe](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Archdruid_Barnabe)'s Discourse with Mainlanders, 2E 553
43. [^](#cite_ref-Oo T_44-0) [*Orcs of Tamriel, Volume 3*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Orcs_of_Tamriel,_Volume_3) — [Grassius Vilco](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Grassius_Vilco)
44. [^](#cite_ref-SRDrevis_45-0) [Drevis Neloren](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Skyrim:Drevis_Neloren)'s dialogue in *[Skyrim](Skyrim_Skyrim.md)*
45. [^](#cite_ref-LADragons_46-0) [*Loremaster's Archive - Dragons in the Second Era*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Loremaster%27s_Archive_-_Dragons_in_the_Second_Era) — [Camilla Calsivius](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Camilla_Calsivius)
46. [^](#cite_ref-ESOKaalgrontiid_47-0) [Kaalgrontiid](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Kaalgrontiid)'s dialogue in [ESO](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Online): *[Elsweyr](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Elsweyr)*
47. [^](#cite_ref-Kat D_48-0) [*Khunzar-ri and the Demons*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Khunzar-ri_and_the_Demons)
48. [^](#cite_ref-SAR_49-0) [*Sovngarde, a Reexamination*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Sovngarde,_a_Reexamination) — [Bereditte Jastal](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Bereditte_Jastal)
49. [^](#cite_ref-Hrothgar_50-0) [The Etched Tablets of High Hrothgar.](Skyrim_High_Hrothgar.md#Etched_Tablets)
50. [^](#cite_ref-SRFarengar_51-0) [Farengar Secret-Fire](Skyrim_Farengar_Secret-Fire.md)'s dialogue in *[Skyrim](Skyrim_Skyrim.md)*
51. [^](#cite_ref-TDW_52-0) [*The Dragon War*](Lore_The_Dragon_War.md) — [Torhal Bjorik](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Torhal_Bjorik)
52. [^](#cite_ref-TBD_53-0) [*There Be Dragons*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:There_Be_Dragons) — [Torhal Bjorik](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Torhal_Bjorik)
53. [^](#cite_ref-54) [*Ayleid Survivals in Valenwood*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Ayleid_Survivals_in_Valenwood) — [Cuinur of Cloudrest](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Cuinur_of_Cloudrest), 4th Tier Scholar of Tamrielic Minutiae
54. [^](#cite_ref-TBOTD_55-0) [*The Book of the Dragonborn*](Lore_The_Book_of_the_Dragonborn.md) — Prior [Emelene Madrine](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Emelene_Madrine)
55. [^](#cite_ref-PGE3Arena_57-0) [*Pocket Guide to the Empire, 3rd Edition: Arena Supermundus: The Tapestry of Heaven*](Lore_Pocket_Guide_to_the_Empire,_3rd_Edition_Arena_Supermundus.md) — [Imperial Geographical Society](Lore_Imperial_Geographical_Society.md), [3E 432](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_432)
56. [^](#cite_ref-MFTS_58-0) [*Magic from the Sky*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Magic_from_the_Sky) — [Irlav Jarol](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Irlav_Jarol)
57. [^](#cite_ref-VOF_59-0) [*Varieties of Faith...*](Lore_Varieties_of_Faith....md) — [Brother Mikhael Karkuxor](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Brother_Mikhael_Karkuxor) of the Imperial College
58. [^](#cite_ref-Hollowbone Wind Chimes_60-0) [Hollowbone Wind Chimes antiquity](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Malabal_Tor_Antiquities) codex entry by [Ugron gro-Thumog](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Ugron_gro-Thumog) in [ESO](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Online)
59. [^](#cite_ref-Prismatic Sunbird Feather_61-0) [Prismatic Sunbird Feather antiquity](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Summerset_Antiquities) codex entries by [Amalien](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Amalien) and [Gabrielle Benele](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Gabrielle_Benele) in [ESO](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Online)

**Note**: The following references are considered to be [unofficial sources](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/General:Unofficial_Lore). They are included to round off this article and may not be authoritative or conclusive.

1. [^](#cite_ref-LSP:OAC_40-0) [Lawrence Schick and Phrastus on Altmer Culture](http://www.imperial-library.info/content/lawrence-schick-and-phrastus-altmer-culture-0)
2. [^](#cite_ref-56) *[Nu-Mantia Intercept](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/General:Nu-Mantia_Intercept)*