# Gods W

[Overview](Lore_Gods.md) | [A](Lore_Gods_A.md) [B](Lore_Gods_B.md) [C](Lore_Gods_C.md) [D](Lore_Gods_D.md) [E](Lore_Gods_E.md) [F](Lore_Gods_F.md) [G](Lore_Gods_G.md) [H](Lore_Gods_H.md) [I](Lore_Gods_I.md) [J](Lore_Gods_J.md) [K](Lore_Gods_K.md) [L](Lore_Gods_L.md) [M](Lore_Gods_M.md) [N](Lore_Gods_N.md) [O](Lore_Gods_O.md) [P](Lore_Gods_P.md) [Q](Lore_Gods_Q.md) [R](Lore_Gods_R.md) [S](Lore_Gods_S.md) [T](Lore_Gods_T.md) [U](Lore_Gods_U.md) [V](Lore_Gods_V.md) W [X](Lore_Gods_X.md) [Y](Lore_Gods_Y.md) [Z](Lore_Gods_Z.md)
---

#### The Wilderking
The [Wilderking](Lore_Wilderking.md) (or **Wilderqueen**) is a [god](Lore_Gods.md) worshipped by tribal [Bosmer](Lore_Bosmer.md) in the pristine jungles of the [Greenshade](Lore_Greenshade.md) region of [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md). He dons a living crown made of knotted branches and leaves. The look of the crown along with his elusiveness caused him to be depicted as an Altmer with antlers. He is as much a political figurehead as a god, as these tribes answer to him rather than the King in [Elden Root](Lore_Elden_Root.md). The Wilderking is selective of those he appears to, which often causes outsiders to doubt his existence. He is so elusive in fact that rare sketches of him circulating were said to be extremely valuable to collectors and myth hunters. His domain is known as the [Court of the Wilderking](Lore_Court_of_the_Wilderking.md), and makes up the southeasterly region of Greenshade. His physical manifestation resides at the Throne of the Wilderking, located high above the city of [Greenheart](Lore_Greenheart.md). To his followers, the Wilderking is seen as a boundless entity, encompassing both the Court and the Throne; indeed, his [power over nature](Lore_Nature_Magic.md) approaches the divine. As such, he is responsible for keeping the balance of nature.

The mantle of Wilderking is continually passed down by the Wilderking to a mortal born with an innate and powerful control over nature, who will be brought to the Throne of the Wilderking so that the previous Wilderking may die. After adopting the title, the mortal soon loses all memories of their previous life. The Wilderking is served by guardian [lurchers](Lore_Lurcher.md) and mysterious stone beings known as the [Hollow](Lore_Hollow.md). He provided husks and taught the first villagers of [Bramblebreach](Lore_Bramblebreach.md) how to bring lurcher guardians to life. His divine power over the land is stuff of legend in Valenwood he is said to have performed feats such as pulling a full grown tree out of a seed, and lifting the flat ground into a hill. He was rumored to be able to shape the forest in its entirety. Beyond his mere physical manifestation he is said to be a literal embodiment of the land. The Wilderking has a long-standing pact with the Bosmer of the [Shrouded Vale](Lore_Shrouded_Vale.md), in return for his protection he provides them caretaking of the fading tree which he [spirits away](Lore_Forest_Realm.md) every one hundred years or so. He also provides sustenance for the appointed caretaker of the vale.

#### The Winged Serpent of the East‎
The [Winged Serpent of the East](Lore_Winged_Serpent_of_the_East.md) is an obscure entity from the ancient [Khajiiti](Lore_Khajiit.md) mythology predating the [ri'Datta](Lore_Rid-Thar-ri%27Datta.md) era.

The Winged Serpent is one of [Akha](Lore_Akha.md)'s mates. In the earliest days, when [Ahnurr](Lore_Ahnurr.md) and [Fadomai](Lore_Fadomai.md) were deeply in love, Akha ventured across the heavens, his trails forming the Many Paths. His father told him to seek love akin to that of Ahnurr and Fadomai. Akha united with the Winged Serpent of the East. He also had other mates, including the [Dune Queen of the West](Lore_Dune_Queen_of_the_West.md) and the [Mother Mammoth of the North](Lore_Mother_Mammoth_of_the_North.md).

However, upon venturing to the South Akha never returned. [Alkosh](Lore_Alkosh.md) and his loyal guardians oversee the numerous [Dragon](Lore_Dragon.md) children of Akha, some of whom were from the union with the Winged Serpent, "for they are both terrible and kind".<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_nb1)</sup>

#### Wise-Wing the Owl
[Wise-Wing](Lore_Wise-Wing.md) **the Owl** was a mythical [owl](Lore_Owl.md) companion of [Jhunal](Lore_Jhunal.md) the Rune God, [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) god of knowledge and wisdom. Like her, Jhunal’s symbol was also an owl.

Wise-Wing the Owl is linked to the god Jhunal or [Julianos](Lore_Julianos.md), in the northern regions of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). During the [Witches Festival](Lore_Witches_Festival.md), it is believed that she serves as a protector, cautioning the unwary to steer clear of graveyards and witches' covens where danger may await. Masks were crafted in Wise-Wing's likeness. It was believed by some that wearing her owl-shaped mask would inspire others to trust in the wearer's wisdom and guidance.

She was commonly depicted as a barred owl. Wearing tail-feathers from a barred owl was considered a sign of devotion to the God of Wisdom.