# Factions J

[Overview](Lore_Factions.md) | [A](Lore_Factions_A.md) [B](Lore_Factions_B.md) [C](Lore_Factions_C.md) [D](Lore_Factions_D.md) [E](Lore_Factions_E.md) [F](Lore_Factions_F.md) [G](Lore_Factions_G.md) [H](Lore_Factions_H.md) [I](Lore_Factions_I.md) J [K](Lore_Factions_K.md) [L](Lore_Factions_L.md) [M](Lore_Factions_M.md) [N](Lore_Factions_N.md) [O](Lore_Factions_O.md) [P](Lore_Factions_P.md) [Q](Lore_Factions_Q.md) [R](Lore_Factions_R.md) [S](Lore_Factions_S.md) [T](Lore_Factions_T.md) [U](Lore_Factions_U.md) [V](Lore_Factions_V.md) [W](Lore_Factions_W.md) [X](Lore_Factions_X.md) Y [Z](Lore_Factions_Z.md)
---

## Jaqspurs
[Jaqspurs](Lore_Jaqspurs.md) are renowned [Bosmeri](Lore_Bosmer.md) archers, who have achieved legendary status for their remarkable skills, demonstrating extraordinary skills such as the ability to split arrows in mid-flight. Hailing from [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md), these archers are known for their exceptional long-distance shooting abilities. They don attire crafted entirely from leather, accentuated with bone. In addition to their service in wars as part of the Bosmeri army, Jaqspurs fulfill various roles such as scouts, trackers, hunters, and hired guards, utilizing their archery skills to contribute to the defense and security of their people.

Jaqspurs were dedicated servants to both the [Green Lady](Lore_Green_Lady.md) and [the Silvenar](Lore_The_Silvenar.md). **Silvenar's Own Jaqspurs**, an esteemed personal guard comprised of Valenwood's finest long-range archers. Although disbanded prior to the mid- [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), this renowned group was reestablished during the reign of the first [Aldmeri Dominion](Lore_Aldmeri_Dominion.md). When the Dominion was formed, several Jaqspurs joined as a symbolic gesture of goodwill. The passing of the Green Lady had a profound impact on all Jaqspurs, as they felt a deep connection to her. They also answered to Treethanes.

## Jephrine Paladins
[Jephrine Paladins](Lore_Jephrine_Paladins.md), also known as the **[Paladins](Lore_Paladins.md) of Jephre** are an [Altmeri](Lore_Altmer.md) militant order of followers of [Jephre](Lore_Jephre.md). Their attire is inspired by [Indriks](Lore_Indrik.md), creatures that bear a relation to their patron deity. They are known to be the protectors of the wild. It is believed that whenever a paladin of Jephre performs an act the God of Song and Forest finds worthy, an infant autumnal Indrik takes its shaky steps into the world.

## Jode's Chariot
[Jode's Chariot](Lore_Jode%27s_Chariot.md) was a law enforcement agency which operated at the Redfur Trading Post in [Grahtwood](Lore_Grahtwood.md) during the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). They were employed by the leader of the merchants in charge of the trading coster at the time. To this end, they served as the town guard, stopping thieves and either jailing people for committing crimes or sentencing them to time in the stocks depending on the severity of the crime.

The Chariots would occasionally butt heads with the [Hollow Moon](Lore_Hollow_Moon_(faction).md), a charitable organization that stole from Redfur's wealthy merchants and gave their bounty to the poor. The Chariots agreed that giving to those in need was a noble cause, and thieves were good for business at the trading post. The Hollow Moon kept the market fluid and stopped too much wealth from accumulating in one place. However, Jode's Chariot couldn't ignore the Hollow Moon simply because their cause was just. The Hollow Moon was still a group of thieves, and thieves were to be put in the stocks. Jode's Chariot existed to maintain order in the trading coster, and that purpose would be null if they allowed every thief to get away with their crimes.

## Jovial Lambasters
The [Jovial Lambasters](Lore_Jovial_Lambasters.md) were a prominent and exclusive group dedicated to the worship and celebration of the [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Prince.md) [Clavicus Vile](Lore_Clavicus_Vile.md) in [Rimmen](Lore_Rimmen.md). During the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md) the cult allowed the local Outlaw's Refuge to function in return for dues paid by all who worked there. At that time they were the most powerful faction active in Rimmen and were a closed organization. They were known to offer wealth, power, and prestige, but always for a price. The membership of the cult was highly desired by some outlaws as it provided a number of perks. Others however, considered them "a bunch of criminal loons" and declined the invitation.

Circa [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), the cult was led by an [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) man named Ferrus Mallon, and had its headquarters in the tunnels beneath Rimmen. Little is known of the exact numbers of the cult, but it is known that they had Imperials, [Bosmer](Lore_Bosmer.md), and [Khajiit](Lore_Khajiit.md) among their ranks.