# People M

[Overview](Lore_People.md) | [A](Lore_People_A.md) [B](Lore_People_B.md) [C](Lore_People_C.md) [D](Lore_People_D.md) [E](Lore_People_E.md) [F](Lore_People_F.md) [G](Lore_People_G.md) [H](Lore_People_H.md) [I](Lore_People_I.md) [J](Lore_People_J.md) [K](Lore_People_K.md) [L](Lore_People_L.md) M [N](Lore_People_N.md) [O](Lore_People_O.md) [P](Lore_People_P.md) [Q](Lore_People_Q.md) [R](Lore_People_R.md) [S](Lore_People_S.md) [T](Lore_People_T.md) [U](Lore_People_U.md) [V](Lore_People_V.md) [W](Lore_People_W.md) [X](Lore_People_X.md) [Y](Lore_People_Y.md) [Z](Lore_People_Z.md)
---

#### Maalanrie Direnni (fl. before 2E 582)
[Maalanrie Direnni](Lore_Maalanrie_Direnni.md) was one of the members of the influential [Altmeri](Lore_Altmer.md) clan [Direnni](Lore_Direnni.md), and the pioneer conjuration mage. She is accredited with the summoning of the first [Iron Atronach](Lore_Iron_Atronach.md) [Senche](Lore_Senche-Cat.md) in history.

The exact details of this event are unknown, however, at some point in history before [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582) she was captured by a group of bandits and imprisoned inside a cage. According to certain sources she "walked through dreams" and managed to call upon the mighty Atronach steed to free herself from captivity and destroy the cage. She then killed her captors and rode on its back to freedom.

By [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), the art of conjuring Iron Atronachs shaped like senche was popular among conjuration mages.

#### Maarselok (? - [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582))
[Maarselok](Lore_Maarselok.md), was a powerful azure [Dragon](Lore_Dragon.md) who emerged in the [Tenmar jungle](Lore_Tenmar.md) in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), having awoken from his resting place deep beneath the mountains of eastern [Grahtwood](Lore_Grahtwood.md) with the release of the great dragon [Kaalgrontiid](Lore_Kaalgrontiid.md) and his dragon followers from the [Halls of Colossus](Lore_Halls_of_Colossus.md). He used his [Thu'um](Lore_Thu%27um.md) to unleash a corruptive plague called the [Azure Blight](Lore_Azure_Blight.md), it rapidly spread through the jungle, corrupting the life within and bringing it under the dragon's thrall, and threatened all of Grahtwood, and even the [Elden Root](Lore_Elden_Root.md) tree, [Green-Sap](Lore_Towers.md), and the [Green](Lore_The_Green.md) itself. Maarselok's ultimate goal was to use his blight to take control of the [Changeling](Lore_Changeling.md) high priestess of [Shagrath](Lore_Shagrath.md), [Selene](Lore_Selene.md), and combine her power with his own, which he believed would give him the ability to shape the world to his liking. According to Selene, Maarselok sought to mold the world to his liking, and was depraved even by dragon standards.

#### Queen Mabjaarn Flame-Hair (?b - [2E 572](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_572))
Queen of Eastern [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md)<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-TSC-1)</sup> who ruled from [Windhelm](Lore_Windhelm.md).<sup>[[2]](#cite_note-ATUQ-2)</sup> She was one of the wearers of the Crown of Freydis.<sup>[[3]](#cite_note-TCOF-3)</sup> According to rumor, she was once outdrunk by Princess [Ayrenn](Lore_Ayrenn.md) of [Alinor](Lore_Alinor_(city).md) in a mead-slamming contest.<sup>[[2]](#cite_note-ATUQ-2)</sup> Mabjaarn had three children: Princess Nurnhilde, her eldest and heir apparent, [Jorunn](Lore_Jorunn.md) the Skald Prince, and Fildgor Strong Prince.<sup>[[4]](#cite_note-TBW-4)</sup> Mabjaarn and Nurnhilde were killed by [Akaviri](Lore_Akavir.md) invaders in Windhelm, though they reportedly went down fighting. Jorunn led the [Nords](Lore_Nord.md) in avenging their deaths.<sup>[[5]](#cite_note-JTSK-5)</sup>

#### Queen Macalla (fl. 3E 432)
The Queen of [Dawnstar](Lore_Dawnstar.md) in [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) circa [3E 432](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_432), and wife of King [Thian](Lore_Thian.md) of [Solitude](Lore_Solitude.md).<sup>[[6]](#cite_note-PGE3S-6)</sup>

#### Harbinger Macke of the Piercing Eyes (fl. 1E 2912 - 2920)
[Macke of the Piercing Eyes](Lore_Macke_of_the_Piercing_Eyes.md) was a Harbinger of the [Companions](Lore_Companions.md) in the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md). Known for her great beauty, she was among the most notable Harbingers recorded by [Swyk the Long-Sighted](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Swyk_the_Long-Sighted).

#### The Mad Architect (?b - [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582))
The [Mad Architect](Lore_Mad_Architect.md), originally a [Breton](Lore_Breton.md) man named **Dutheil**, was an infamous mortal architect during the mid- [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). He is said to be one of the few entities ever to serve multiple [Daedric Princes](Lore_Daedric_Princes.md) and profit from it, and has been referred to as a [demigod](Lore_Demigod.md).

#### King Madanach (fl. 4E 174 - 201)
[Madanach](Lore_Madanach.md), known as the **King in Rags**, was the [Reachman](Lore_Reachmen.md) king of the short-lived independent kingdom in [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md) that existed from [4E 174](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_174) to [4E 176](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_176) and the leader of the [Forsworn Rebellion](Lore_Forsworn_Rebellion.md). He was a proficient spellcaster, specializing in the arts of ice magic and conjuration. Taking advantage of the [Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md)'s preoccupation with the [Great War](Lore_Great_War.md), in 4E 174, he led other disgruntled Reachmen in the uprising that overthrew the [Nord](Lore_Nord.md) Jarl [Hrolfdir](Lore_Hrolfdir.md) of [Markarth](Lore_Markarth.md). According to some historians, the two-year period of Reachman independence was relatively peaceful, with only the cruelest Nord landowners being put to death, and the nascent kingdom made overtures to the Empire seeking formal recognition.

However, Hrolfdir and his son, [Igmund](Lore_Igmund.md), desperate to reclaim the Reach, hired [Ulfric Stormcloak](Lore_Ulfric_Stormcloak.md) and his militia to retake it in exchange for allowing [Talos](Lore_Talos.md) worship in the hold, hoping that the [Thalmor](Lore_Thalmor.md) would not hear of this violation of the [White-Gold Concordat](Lore_White-Gold_Concordat.md). In 4E 176, Ulfric and his militia besieged and then took Markarth, capturing Madanach in the process.

#### Chief Maddorfa (fl. before 2E 582)
**Chief** [Maddorfa](Lore_Maddorfa.md) was a [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md) clan leader of the [Eagleseer Clan](Lore_Eagleseer_Clan.md). The exact times of his rule are unknown but as of [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582) the Battle of [Karthspire Lea](Lore_Karthspire_Lea.md) he took part in was considered ancient and took place in ages past. During his tenure Eagleseers were feuding with [Six-Ford Clan](Lore_Six-Ford_Clan.md). He led his clan to one of the most known battles between those two clans, the Battle of Karthspire Lea, during which he suffered a mortal wound.

#### Maebroogha the Void Lich (fl. 2E 582)
[Maebroogha](Lore_Maebroogha.md) the **Void Lich** was a [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md) [witch](Lore_Witches.md) who was proficient in [void magic](Lore_Void_Magic.md), ultimately transforming into a powerful [Voidmother](Lore_Voidmother.md). She was infamous for destroying the [soul](Lore_Soul.md) of the renowned [Vateshran](Lore_Vateshrans.md) [Aydolan](Lore_Aydolan.md).

#### Maelmoth the Mysterious (fl. early 1E)
[Maelmoth](Lore_Maelmoth.md) **the Mysterious**, known as **The Master of Illusion** and **Master of Mysterious Illusions** was a powerful [Nord](Lore_Nord.md) illusionist and contemporary of Arch-Mage [Shalidor](Lore_Shalidor.md). He was one of Skyrim's most gifted illusionists and creator of Nested Illusion.

#### Magna Tharn (?b - [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582))
[Magna Tharn](Lore_Magna_Tharn.md) was an [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) member of the noble [House Tharn](Lore_House_Tharn.md) of [Cheydinhal](Lore_Cheydinhal.md), and a member of the [Worm Cult](Lore_Worm_Cult.md) active in [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md), who attempted to resurrect the ancient [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) warlord [Ceyran](Lore_Ceyran.md).

#### Sorceror-King Magnus (fl. [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md) or [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md))
The [Sorceror-King Magnus](Lore_Magnus_(sorceror-king).md) (also known as **Arch-Mage Magnus**) was the possessor of the [Staff of Magnus](Lore_Staff_of_Magnus.md), who once lived on [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). Just before he died, Magnus entrusted the [Imperial Order of Blades](Lore_Blades.md) with a map to where the Staff of Magnus could be found, which had been placed within a dungeon somewhere in [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md).

#### Emperor Magnus Septim ([3E 79](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_79) - [3E 145](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_145))
[Magnus Septim](Lore_Magnus_Septim.md) (sometimes enumerated as **Magnus I**) was the eleventh emperor of the [Third Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md) and [Septim Dynasty](Lore_Septim_Dynasty.md), reigning for five years, from [3E 140](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_140) to [3E 145](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_145). During the [War of the Red Diamond](Lore_War_of_the_Red_Diamond.md), Magnus fought alongside his brother [Cephorus](Lore_Cephorus_I.md) against their nephew [Uriel III](Lore_Uriel_III.md) and their sister [Potema](Lore_Potema.md). In [3E 137](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_137), Magnus took part in the final battle of the war, the month-long [Siege of Solitude](Lore_Siege_of_Solitude.md), alongside Cephorus I, which ended when Potema died in her [castle](Lore_Blue_Palace.md). Magnus was already sixty-one when he acceded to the throne, and the business of punishing the traitorous kings of the War of the Red Diamond drained much of his remaining strength. He was preceded by his older brother, [Cephorus I](Lore_Cephorus_I.md), and was succeeded by his son, [Pelagius III](Lore_Pelagius_III.md).

#### Warlord Mahgzoor Rockhand (fl. early-mid 1E)
[Mahgzoor Rockhand](Lore_Mahgzoor_Rockhand.md) (also spelled **Mahzgoor**), also known as **Bone-Hewer**, a name shared with his blade, was a notorious giant [Goblin](Lore_Goblin.md) Warlord who was responsible for leading the Endwise Army, a horde of tusk-folk, into Hammerfell, wreaking havoc and destruction upon the people. His name was synonymous with terror and death, and his great blade, Bone-Hewer, struck fear into the hearts of even the bravest warriors.

#### M'aiq the Liar (fl. [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md) to [Fourth Era](Lore_Fourth_Era.md))
[M'aiq the Liar](Lore_M%27aiq_the_Liar.md) (or **M'Aiq the Liar**) is the name used by certain peculiar [Khajiit](Lore_Khajiit.md) from throughout [Tamrielic](Lore_Tamriel.md) history. Each known individual with this name is a strange male Khajiit, who claims great knowledge but speaks of many false or implausible things, with only occasional truths. Comments made by some of these liars, and an inscription on a flute discovered in [Crow's Wood](Lore_Crow%27s_Wood.md), seem to imply there is a long bloodline of Khajiit with the same name. However, some of the comments made by M'aiq also imply they might somehow be a single immortal individual, given M'aiq's presence throughout at least three different eras. If he was ever asked directly about the topic, it is thought he would likely lie.

M'aiq the Liar is a notorious figure among the inhabitants of Tamriel, with rumors even existing (likely spread by M'aiq himself) about him being responsible for slaying [Dagoth Ur](Lore_Dagoth_Ur.md), solving the [Oblivion crisis](Lore_Oblivion_Crisis.md), and ending the [war in Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim_Civil_War.md). At least one organization regularly sought out M'aiq for information. He is the namesake of a non-alcoholic drink made by Khajiit in the [Fourth Era](Lore_Fourth_Era.md), called the "M'aiq Tale". Some of the Khajiit named M'aiq made cryptic implications regarding [Dragons](Lore_Dragon.md), which occasionally proved to be true, though it cannot be said whether these comments spoke to deeper or [prophetic](Lore_Sight.md) knowledge, or were simply matters of happenstance.

#### Mairead ([2E 560](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_560) - ?d)
[Mairead](Lore_Mairead.md), also known as **the Anchorite**, **the Fool of Fargrave**, **Darling of the Alleys**, and **the Woman in the Mask**, was a [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachman.md) [Ambition](Lore_Four_Ambitions.md) and illegitimate daughter of [Emperor](Lore_Tamrielic_Emperors.md) [Moricar](Lore_Moricar.md) and Sister [Celdina](Lore_Celdina.md), a [Breton](Lore_Breton.md) member of the [Order of the Waking Flame](Lore_Order_of_the_Waking_Flame.md). She was responsible for stopping the invasion of [Mehrunes Dagon](Lore_Mehrunes_Dagon.md) of [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582).

#### Grandee Makala (fl. early-mid 2E)
[Makala](Lore_Makala.md) was a [Redguard](Lore_Redguard.md) politician, and a member of the [Forebear](Lore_Forebears.md) nobility, active in the Second Era, known as the Ever-Virtuous. Various sources ascribe to him the titles of King, and Grandee, respectively.

#### Makela Leki (?b - [1E 973](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_973))
[Makela Leki](Lore_Makela_Leki.md), also known was a [Redguard](Lore_Redguard.md) [Ansei](Lore_Ansei.md) warrior or "Sword Saint", a known worshipper of the God of War [Reymon Ebonarm](Lore_Reymon_Ebonarm.md), and one of the most famed heroes in [Redguard](Lore_Redguard.md) history. She is best known for her sacrifice at the Battle of [Bangkorai Pass](Lore_Bangkorai_Pass.md) in the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md), where she and her five companions were responsible for routing an invading [Breton](Lore_Breton.md) army led by [King Joile](Lore_Joile.md) of [Daggerfall](Lore_Daggerfall_(kingdom).md).

#### Makes-Many-Soups (fl. 2E 582)
[Makes-Many-Soups](Lore_Makes-Many-Soups.md) was a highly respected cook of the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). She was credited with numerous recipes that were celebrated throughout [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md) as late as the [Fourth Era](Lore_Fourth_Era.md).

#### Malborn (fl. 4E 201)
[Malborn](Lore_Malborn.md) is a [Bosmer](Lore_Bosmer.md) who became a crucial informant for the [Blades](Lore_Blades.md) in the [Fourth Era](Lore_Fourth_Era.md). His real name isn't Malborn but an alias. The [Thalmor](Lore_Thalmor.md) wiped out his family in [Falinesti](Lore_Falinesti.md) during a purge, with their murders being covered up as an accident caused by a fire. Ever since the death of his family, he developed a hatred for the Thalmor, and at some point got in contact with [Delphine](Lore_Delphine.md), an agent of the blades.

Delphine later arranged a meeting between Malborn and the [Last Dragonborn](Lore_Last_Dragonborn.md) in [Solitude](Lore_Solitude.md). There, Malborn discussed plans to smuggle the Dragonborn's supplies into the [Thalmor Embassy](Lore_Thalmor_Embassy.md) during a party hosted by [Elenwen](Lore_Elenwen.md), the First Emissary of the Thalmor in [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). At the party, after the Dragonborn influenced a guest to cause a distraction, Malborn quietly led the Dragonborn into a back room to retrieve their supplies and infiltrate the Embassy. Later, Malborn was apprehended by Thalmor soldiers and escorted to a dungeon, where the Dragonborn was in the middle of collecting information and freeing a prisoner. Malborn was rescued,<sup>[[Note 1]](#intnote_Survival)</sup> and fled to [Windhelm](Lore_Windhelm.md), where he would later reunite with the Dragonborn. He ended up asking for their help dealing with a Thalmor assassin, and when that was done, Malborn fled to [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md).

#### General Malgoth (fl. before 2E 582)
[General Malgoth](Lore_Malgoth.md) was a [Bosmer](Lore_Bosmer.md) who led the Blackroot Clan and attempted to unite all the Bosmer under his leadership and conquer [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md). Malgoth traveled throughout [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) and saw the greatness that came to those who conquered through military might, a status that he hoped to achieve. Malgoth led the Blackroot Clan during the Bosmer tribal wars. Malgoth and his clan eventually set their sights on the settlement of [Vullain](Lore_Dread_Vullain.md), intending to make an example of them for the other villages, with the goal of uniting the Bosmer to strengthen them against their enemies, the [Khajiit](Lore_Khajiit.md).

Word eventually reached the inhabitants of Vullain that Malgoth intended to march on Vullain. With no way to match the military might of the Blackroot Clan, the villagers turned to the local [nature guardians](Lore_Nature_Spirits.md), the [Nereids](Lore_Nereid.md). Knowing that Malgoth and his clan would adhere to the [Meat Mandate](Lore_Green_Pact.md), the villagers convinced the Nereids to provide them with elixirs to poison their bodies to cause the deaths of the Blackroot warriors when they consumed their corpses.

As expected, Malgoth and his army easily defeated the inhabitants of Vullain and consumed their remains per the Meat Mandate. Eventually realizing the trap they had fallen into, Malgoth himself pleaded with the Nereids for a cure to the poison, but they ignored him. Malgoth and the Blackroot Clan soon succumbed to the poison. Following their deaths, Malgoth and his people became bound to the [Ooze](Lore_Ooze.md).

During the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md) in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), the site of Dread Vullain was visited by the [Veiled Heritance](Lore_Veiled_Heritance.md). One of the servants of the Shade of Prince [Naemon](Lore_Naemon.md) resurrected the Blackroot Clan, forcing them to serve him through the [Rite of Theft](Lore_Bosmer.md#The_Rite_of_Theft) by stealing Malgoth's bow. An [agent](Lore_Soulless_One.md) of the [Aldmeri Dominion](Lore_Aldmeri_Dominion.md), along with the mage [Indaenir](Lore_Indaenir.md), traversed Dread Vullain and uncovered the mystery surrounding the site. Once the two found Malgoth's remains, they were brought to the [Shadow Wood](Lore_Shadow_Wood.md), a corrupted form of Valenwood created by the Shade of Naemon. It was there that the two acquired the bow of Malgoth. The agent invoked the Rite of Theft, putting Malgoth's forces at their command. Whether the agent chose to use the clan in the battle against Naemon or released them is unknown; regardless, Dread Vullain was liberated from Naemon.

#### Malham (fl. before 3E 398)
A famous mage and scholar who wrote *[Malham's Annotated Compendium of Arcane Contrivances of the Second Age](Lore_Malham%27s_Annotated_Compendium_of_Arcane_Contrivances_of_the_Second_Age,_Volume_IV.md)*. He expounded several magical theories and predictions. Other mages use his work as a guide during experiments.<sup>[[7]](#cite_note-AJ-7)</sup>

#### Master Malkhest (fl. 2E 582)
**Master** [Malkhest](Lore_Malkhest.md) was a [Breton](Lore_Breton.md) scholar and a devoted follower of [Hermaeus Mora](Lore_Hermaeus_Mora.md), a powerful mage who served as the hierophant and custodian of the [Infinite Archive](Lore_Infinite_Archive.md) during the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md)'s [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md).

#### Malkur Valos (fl. 2E 578 - 582)
[Malkur Valos](Lore_Malkur_Valos.md) was a [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) member of the [Mages Guild](Lore_Mages_Guild.md) and an expert on [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md).

Malkur was born the only child of the wizard Maros Valos. When Malkur's mother died in childbirth, Maros summoned a [Golden Saint](Lore_Golden_Saint.md) to protect and care for his son. Malkur was taken to the [Shivering Isles](Lore_Shivering_Isles.md) by his Daedric guardian and raised among the [Aureals](Lore_Aureal.md) after Maros was killed in a mage's duel. Under their tutelage he acquired steadfast principles of honor and duty, although the inescapable influence of the Isles imbued him with a measure of unpredictability. Eventually, Malkur was drawn to return to [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md), where his natural magical ability caught the attention of [Vanus Galerion](Lore_Vanus_Galerion.md). After joining the Mages Guild, the principles and objectives of the guild became the unwavering core driving his every action, though that was not always apparent to superficial observers.

Following the [Soulburst](Lore_Soulburst.md) of [2E 578](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_578), Malkur was seemingly involved in investigating [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md)'s growing influence, as evidenced by his encounter with [Flaccus Terentius](Lore_Flaccus_Terentius.md) in [Coldharbour](Lore_Coldharbour.md) in [2E 581](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_581). In [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), Malkur was among those assembled by the Mages Guild to take part in the invasion of Coldharbour. However, after entering the portal on the island of [Stirk](Lore_Stirk.md), the invasion force was scattered across the realm by Molag Bal's defenses. Along with a group of fellow mages, Malkur ended up near the Court of Contempt, where the harsh laws of Coldharbour are enforced. The group was beset by [Dremora](Lore_Dremora.md) and brought before the court, although Malkur himself evaded capture by transforming into a [scamp](Lore_Scamp.md). The trial was nothing but a farce, and the mages were quickly condemned to death. With the help of the [Vestige](Lore_The_Vestige.md), Malkur fought through the Daedric guards and rescued his peers from the court.

He then journeyed to [the Hollow City](Lore_The_Hollow_City.md), where the scattered invasion force was assembling. He was responsible for opening and maintaining portals to Tamriel, which brought the Hollow City to life and allowed for supply lines and reinforcements to enter Coldharbour safely. Malkur also partook in the invasion's final assault, when he entered the Endless Stair and helped put an end to the [Planemeld](Lore_Planemeld.md).

Many prominent figures active in the decade following the onset of the Planemeld were immortalized in a painting commemorating their adventures. Among them was Malkur, portrayed in a conversation with [Azandar al-Cybiades](Lore_Azandar_al-Cybiades.md) and [Telenger the Artificer](Lore_Telenger.md).

The famed summoner Gavis Velas and his brother Ovis Velas were descendants of Malkur. They moved to [Mournhold](Lore_Mournhold.md) in [3E 427](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_427). Ovis was killed after publicly assaulting the [Nerevarine](Lore_Nerevarine.md), and Gavis died attempting to avenge him.

#### Sealord Malleroth (fl. 2E 582)
**Sealord** [Malleroth](Lore_Malleroth.md) of [Pyandonea](Lore_Pyandonea.md) was a member of the Maormer High Command. He was active in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), during the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md) and was responsible for the brief alliance between Pyandonea and Veiled Queen [Estre](Lore_Estre.md).

#### Mandaillonan the Marked (fl. before 2E 578)
[Mandaillonan the Marked](Lore_Mandaillonan_the_Marked.md) was a pioneer [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md) herbalist and alchemist active at some point before [2E 578](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_578). She was among the first herbalists to accurately brew and successfully extract the beneficial qualities of rodents. At some point, she underwent a ritualistic transformation into a [Hagraven](Lore_Hagraven.md) and was later killed by a [Nord](Lore_Nord.md) axeman.

Despite her transformation into a Hagraven and fall to a Nord, she was remembered fondly by her descendants for her contributions to the art of herbalism. She was one of the ancestors of [Gargrell Sorick](Lore_Gargrell_Sorick.md), an apothecary who served as an apprentice and assistant to the master [Defessus Lector](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Defessus_Lector). Techniques developed by Mandaillonan were still used as of [2E 578](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_578) by her descendants.

#### Mankar Camoran ([3E 267](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_267) - [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433))
[Mankar Camoran](Lore_Mankar_Camoran.md) was the leader of the [Mythic Dawn](Lore_Mythic_Dawn.md), a cult of [Mehrunes Dagon](Lore_Mehrunes_Dagon.md) worshippers that assassinated [Uriel Septim VII](Lore_Uriel_Septim_VII.md) in [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433) in an attempt to destroy [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md).

#### Mannimarco (?b - [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433))
[Mannimarco](Lore_Mannimarco.md) is the **God of Worms**, the founder and object of worship of the [Order of the Black Worm](Lore_Order_of_the_Black_Worm.md). Before his apotheosis he was an [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md) mage ([Aldmer](Lore_Aldmer.md), by his own account) who had studied with the [Psijic Order](Lore_Psijic_Order.md). He eventually found his own path after he was exiled for practicing [necromancy](Lore_Necromancy.md), a discipline the Order deemed dangerous and heretical. He became the most powerful necromancer that [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md) has ever seen, becoming widely known as the **King of Worms** and head and archnecromancer of his often renamed Worm Cult. While the exact timing of his transformation into a [lich](Lore_Lich.md) is unknown, he is remembered in later records as the "world’s first of the undying liches," a designation of uncertain meaning.<sup>[[nb 2]](#intnote_Lich)</sup> Through his political brilliance, his revival of necromancy from obscurity, and his ascension into godhood, he has left a nearly unparalleled impact on [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md)'s history.

Mannimarco's early years are unclear. Should his claim to being an Aldmer be true, he may have lived since the [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md). He was expelled from Artaeum for practicing necromancy around the year [2E 230](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_230), after which he gathered followers who formed the Order of the Black Worm. His rivalry with [Vanus Galerion](Lore_Vanus_Galerion.md) defined much of his known early history, especially as Mannimarco spread soul trapping and necromantic teachings throughout Tamriel. The [Mages Guild](Lore_Mages_Guild.md) as well as [Arkay](Lore_Arkay.md) and his faithful were those he would come to consider his greatest enemies in life and undeath.<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_KW)</sup> A master manipulator, Mannimarco engaged in politics, gaining and maintaining influence by maneuvering through the courts of rising and falling empires. His most significant political achievement was wielding the true power behind the [Empire of Cyrodiil](Lore_Empire_of_Cyrodiil_(Interregnum).md) from the shadows during the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md).

During his attempt to attain godhood, Mannimarco suffered repeated failures, including the [Planemeld](Lore_Planemeld.md), where he served [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md) but was punished by him for attempting to usurp the Prince’s station. These setbacks did not deter him, and his persistence finally bore fruit with his ascension during the [Warp in the West](Lore_Warp_in_the_West.md). Despite his ascension, he remained directly physically active in Tamriel in some capacity until at least 3E 433, the last known death of his physical body. He ultimately accomplished his main goals: he slew Vanus Galerion, possibly even making a trophy out of his corpse, and Mannimarco's divine body, the **[Necromancer's Moon](Lore_Necromancer%27s_Moon.md)** (or **the Revenant**), thwarts Arkay by eclipsing his [eponymous planet](Lore_Arkay_(planet).md) every eight days, enabling the creation of [black soul gems](Lore_Soul_Gem.md) for his followers to utilize for ensnaring the souls of the sapient.

For more information, see the [main lore article](Lore_Mannimarco.md).

#### Mansel Sesnit, Elden Yokeda (?b - [1E 617](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_617))
[Mansel Sesnit](Lore_Mansel_Sesnit.md) was an Elden Yokeda of the [Yokudan Empire](Lore_Yokudan_Empire.md). He became the Elden Yokeda, or military dictator, of old [Yokuda](Lore_Yokuda.md) in [1E 609](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_609) and succeeded for eight years in gaining control of almost the whole empire. [Frandar Hunding](Lore_Frandar_Hunding.md)'s grandfather was a retainer of Sesnit and led many of the battles of unification during his reign. He was assassinated in [1E 617](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_617) and replaced by a commoner, [Randic Torn](Lore_Randic_Torn.md). He is noted for his brief but eventful governance, which laid much of the structural groundwork that later [Redguard](Lore_Redguard.md) rulers would utilize.

His crown was brought to [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) after the sinking of Yokuda, where it eventually ended up on display in [Rulanyil's Fall](Lore_Rulanyil%27s_Fall.md) during the mid-Second Era. A number of his paperweights were also found around this time.

#### King Mantiarco ([3E 18](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_18) - [3E 100](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_100))
King of [Solitude](Lore_Solitude.md), husband of [Potema](Lore_Potema.md), the Wolf Queen, and father of [Uriel Septim III](Lore_Uriel_Septim_III.md). In [3E 65](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_65), his first wife, Amodetha, gave birth to a son named Bathorgh, whom Mantiarco raised as his son. He was described as having a bit of a belly in his old age.

In [3E 81](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_81), at the age of sixty-three, he married the fourteen-year-old princess Potema to form a marriage alliance between the Kingdom of Solitude and the Imperial throne.<sup>[[8]](#cite_note-TWQ2-8)</sup> He evidently loved Potema greatly, and allowed her total control.<sup>[[9]](#cite_note-BOTWQ-9)</sup> After multiple miscarriages, Potema bore him a son, the future Emperor of Tamriel, Uriel, in [3E 97](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_97). Potema, alongside a warchief named Lord Vhokken, planted evidence claiming that the late Queen Amodetha had an affair with Mantiarco's trusted military warchief, Lord Thone, which resulted in the birth of Barthorgh. When Mantiarco discovered the evidence, he banished Bathorgh from Solitude and named Uriel as his heir.<sup>[[8]](#cite_note-TWQ2-8)</sup>

Mantiarco died in the spring of [3E 100](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_100), and Uriel succeeded him as King of Solitude.<sup>[[9]](#cite_note-BOTWQ-9)</sup>

#### Many-Tales Wolf (fl. before 2E 582)
[Many-Tales Wolf](Lore_Many-Tales_Wolf.md) was a [Bosmer](Lore_Bosmer.md) legendary hero. They stood among many of the illustrious heroes of the Wood Elves, thriving prior to [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582). They shared recognition with figures like the [Elthonor the Barkborn](Lore_Elthonor_the_Barkborn.md) and [Fildunor Boughbrow](Lore_Fildunor_Boughbrow.md), and notably, the [Ghost of the Green](Lore_Ghost_of_the_Green.md). Despite being considered less renowned than the Ghost, Treethane Einisse's *[The Ghost of the Green](Lore_The_Ghost_of_the_Green.md)* speaks of the Many-Tales Wolf's remarkable accomplishments.

#### Queen Maraya (fl. 2E 566 - 582)
[Queen Maraya](Lore_Maraya.md), dubbed the Jewel of [Satakalaam](Lore_Satakalaam.md), was the eldest daughter of King [Fahara'jad](Lore_Fahara%27jad.md) and [Za-Rifah](Lore_Za-Rifah.md), and sister to Lakana and Crown Prince [Azah](Lore_Azah.md). She was wed to King [Emeric](Lore_Emeric.md) to cement a trade agreement between [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md) and [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), bringing great prosperity to the two states. However, the move drew the ire of King Ranser, who felt betrayed as Emeric had planned to marry his daughter [Rayelle](Lore_Rayelle.md). Maraya and Emeric's wedding took place in the spring of [2E 566](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_566), followed by Ranser's surprise attack on [Wayrest](Lore_Wayrest.md) that culminated in [Ranser's War](Lore_Ranser%27s_War.md). He was ultimately defeated and the Greater [Daggerfall Covenant](Lore_Daggerfall_Covenant.md) formed.

#### Count Marius Caro (fl. 3E 433 - 4E 48)
[Marius Caro](Lore_Marius_Caro.md) was the Count of [Leyawiin](Lore_Leyawiin.md) during the late [Third](Lore_Third_Era.md) and early [Fourth Eras](Lore_Fourth_Era.md). He was the heir to a long lineage of counts, as House Caro had ruled Leyawiin since the early days of the [Second Empire](Lore_Second_Empire.md). He and his father were loved by the people of Leyawiin. Circa [3E 432](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_432), he married [Alessia Valga](Lore_Alessia_Caro.md), daughter of Count [Charus Valga](Lore_Charus_Valga.md) and Countess [Arriana Valga](Lore_Arriana_Valga.md) of [Chorrol](Lore_Chorrol.md).

Many of Leyawiin's citizens were unhappy with his marriage to Alessia, as she had a strong dislike for non- [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) cultures and races, and she wished to introduce an Imperial-dominated culture to Leyawiin. The union of Marius and Alessia was considered a perfect blend of love and wise political maneuvering, as they seemed to be well-matched on a personal level and were both staunch supporters of Imperialization in Leyawiin. There were rumors that Marius and Alessia had a secret torture room in [Castle Leyawiin](Lore_Castle_Leyawiin.md), where they tortured [Argonian](Lore_Argonian.md) immigrants from [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md).

During Caro's reign, County Leyawiin was troubled by the [Renrijra Krin](Lore_Renrijra_Krin.md) insurgency, which desired to reclaim the long-disputed land that the [Mane](Lore_Mane.md) had recently ceded to [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), land that the insurgents felt belonged to [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md). The Count took steps to deal with the insurgency, but he did not have enough manpower to patrol County Leyawiin's borders. Caro created the [Knights of the White Stallion](Lore_Knights_of_the_White_Stallion.md), a chivalric order dedicated to eradicating banditry in County Leyawiin.

During the [Oblivion Crisis](Lore_Oblivion_Crisis.md), Caro believed that High Chancellor [Ocato](Lore_Ocato_of_Firsthold.md) and the [Elder Council](Lore_Elder_Council.md) focused obsessively on the provinces and left Cyrodiil to fend for itself. In [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433), after an Oblivion Gate opened outside of Leyawiin, the city was beset by the forces of [Mehrunes Dagon](Lore_Mehrunes_Dagon.md), but they received no help from the [Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md) and the [Imperial Legion](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md). Despite this, he provided military aid for [Bruma](Lore_Bruma.md) once the Oblivion Gate outside Leyawiin was closed.

After the Empire's collapse in the early Fourth Era, [Bravil](Lore_Bravil.md) and Leyawiin both became independent and were often at odds with each other. By [4E 48](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_48), they had been reincorporated into the Empire under the rule of [Titus Mede I](Lore_Titus_Mede_I.md); however, Leyawiin remained restless. As of 4E 48, Caro still reigned as count, and his daughters had become infamous for poisoning his guests while they were visiting Leyawiin's court.

#### Martialis Tharn (?b - [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582))
[Martialis Tharn](Lore_Martialis_Tharn.md) was an [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) member of the noble [House Tharn](Lore_Tharn.md) of [Cheydinhal](Lore_Cheydinhal.md), and a [necromancer](Lore_Necromancy.md) of the Stonefire Cult devoted to [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md). He was a subordinate of his relative [Javad Tharn](Lore_Javad_Tharn.md).

In [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), he led an attack on the Do'Krin Monastery against the [Khajiit](Lore_Khajiit.md) monks of the Order of the Claw in order to retrieve the Golden Claw, a powerful relic from the era of Mane [Tullar-dra](Lore_Tullar-dra.md). The Stonefire managed to tear down several shrines to the Bright Moons. These shrines were the keys to entering the sanctum. His endeavors were thwarted by [the Vestige](Lore_The_Vestige.md) who wielded the blessings of the Bright Moons and the spirit of the [Rid-Thar-ri'Datta](Lore_Rid-Thar-ri%27Datta.md) who attuned their connection to Jone and Jode. Together the two managed to restore the altars damaged by the Stonefire Cult group led by Martialis. Martialis Tharn, who was attempting to channel energy from the Guardian Senche of the Do'Krin Sanctum to disarm the defenses to the relic was found by the Vestige, who fought, and eventually slain him, ending the threat to the Order of the Claw.

#### Emperor Martin Septim (?b - [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433))
[Martin Septim](Lore_Martin_Septim.md) was the illegitimate son of [Uriel Septim VII](Lore_Uriel_Septim_VII.md) and a mysterious mother.<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_nb1)</sup> Martin was spirited away as an infant by [Jauffre](Lore_Jauffre.md), the Grandmaster of the Blades. Martin grew up knowing nothing of this, and eventually became a Priest of [Akatosh](Lore_Akatosh.md) in the city of [Kvatch](Lore_Kvatch.md). That was where he found himself when his father and half-brothers were assassinated by the [Mythic Dawn](Lore_Mythic_Dawn.md), leaving him as the unwitting sole heir to the Ruby Throne at the onset of the [Oblivion Crisis](Lore_Oblivion_Crisis.md). [Blades](Lore_Blades.md) agents were able to find Martin and keep him safe until the end of the crisis, when the uncrowned Emperor of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) was forced to sacrifice himself to stop [Mehrunes Dagon](Lore_Mehrunes_Dagon.md).

#### Martina Abor (?b - [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582))
[Martina Abor](Lore_Martina_Abor.md) was a powerful [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) [arcanist](Lore_Arcanist.md), author, and scholar, renowned for their research on the topic of [fate](Lore_Fate.md).

#### Duchess Martinne Guimard (fl. [1E 2327](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_2327))
Duchess [Martinne Guimard](Lore_Martinne_Guimard.md) of House [Guimard](Lore_Guimard.md) was a [Breton](Lore_Breton.md) noble who is best remembered as the leader of a consortium of [coin-barons](Lore_Coin-barons.md) that purchased the [Systres](Lore_Systres.md) archipelago from the [Colovian](Lore_Colovia.md) kings in [1E 2327](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_2327). Described as the canniest ruler of her time, she amassed her vast wealth through the markets, including shrewd lending, smuggling, land acquisitions, and draconian tax policy.

When Martinne acquired the Systres for an undisclosed amount of money, her star rose higher at court than even she had hoped. Guimard, along with several of her contemporaries visited the Systres in [1E 2328](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_2328) for an official induction ceremony and dubbed the largest island "[High Isle](Lore_High_Isle.md)," in honor of the Bretons' ancestral homeland, [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md). Although House Guimard sought to exploit the islands' natural resources, they quickly learned that the true value of the archipelago was cultural. Given its inhabitants were thoroughly Bretonic in language, culture, and custom, combined with the discovery of druidic ruins on several islands, fixed the Systres in High Rock's collective imagination as an untouched cradle of Breton history, occupied by Bretons and now owned by Bretons.

House Guimard ruled the region for a century and a half, and even a [statue](Lore_Statues.md) of Duchess Martinne was built on High Isle at some point before the mid- [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), however they eventually fell from power after a failed marriage proposal and ambitious House [Mantel](Lore_Mantel.md) took ownership of the islands.

#### Prophet Marukh (fl. early 1E)
[The Prophet Marukh](Lore_Marukh.md) (sometimes spelled **Maruhk**; also called **Marukh the [Seer](Lore_Sight.md)**, the **Prophet-Most-Simian**, and **Monkey Prophet Maruhk**) was a [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md) [Imga](Lore_Imga.md) prophet who rose to prominence during the [Camoran Dynasty](Lore_Camoran_Dynasty.md) and became especially esteemed among the peoples of [Alessian](Lore_Alessia.md) [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). Marukh's teachings sparked the massive cultural and spiritual movement known as the [Alessian Order](Lore_Alessian_Order.md), a theocracy that transformed the Empire and the continent. He also wrote the [Alessian Doctrines](Lore_Alessian_Doctrines.md), which provided the basis of law during the Order's rule of the [Alessian Empire](Lore_Alessian_Empire.md). Marukh is credited with the credo "all are guilty until they have proven themselves innocent", which went on to become the basis for the [Tamrielic](Lore_Tamriel.md) legal system.

Marukh's teachings both brought identity to [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), codifying the pantheon most civilized Tamriellians worship to this day, and brought conflict due to the more severe strictures he espoused. His teachings began to question the validity of Elven rule after speaking to the "Enlightened One", Saint Alessia, in a vision. These sentiments led to an increasingly abstract and unknowable depiction of a [Single God](Lore_The_One.md). They heavily influenced the Alessian Order and their secret sect, the [Marukhati Selective](Lore_Marukhati_Selective.md). The priesthood of Marukh saw no difference between spiritual and political matters. This was the religion of the Alessian Empire, and it taught that to resist the Emperor was to resist the Gods.

As Marukh's teachings began to spread, hostility grew between Camoran Dynasty and the Empire. One of Marukh's chief supporters, the [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) High King, [Borgas](Lore_Borgas.md), traveled to Cyrodiil to urge a joint war against the [Bosmer](Lore_Bosmer.md), but fell victim of Valenwood's infamous [Wild Hunt](Lore_Wild_Hunt.md). This ultimately led to the eventual dissolution of the Alessian Reform of Marukh in Valenwood.

#### Mathieu Bellamont (?b - [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433))
**Mathieu Bellamont** was a [Breton](Lore_Breton.md) assassin who was a member of the elite association known as the Black Hand within the [Dark Brotherhood](Lore_Dark_Brotherhood.md). Having once been a member of the Dark Brotherhood Sanctuary in [Cheydinhal](Lore_Cheydinhal.md), he relocated to [Anvil](Lore_Anvil.md) upon achieving promotion to the Black Hand. There, he dwelt in the undercroft of the Anvil Lighthouse with his crazed dog, unbeknownst to anyone, save the lighthouse's watchkeeper. Mathieu would then plan his treacherous plot against the Brotherhood, whom he had so much malice and enmity for because his father had contracted them to kill his mother. His motives, to eradicate the entire [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) Dark Brotherhood, would be transpired by the means of a fellow member, whom would serve as the catalyst for his virulent recipe for the Brotherhood's death and destruction. However, his plans would not come to fruition, for he would be killed by the [Hero of Kvatch](Lore_Hero_of_Kvatch.md) and the newly crowned Listener in the Crypt of the [Night Mother](Lore_Night_Mother.md) under the Statue of the Lucky Lady in [Bravil](Lore_Bravil.md).

#### Mathoc Risor (fl. before [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582))
[Mathoc Risor](Lore_Mathoc_Risor.md), also known **Mathoc the Immortal** was a powerful [Breton](Lore_Breton.md) warrior rumored to be [immortal](Lore_Immortality.md).

#### Mavos Siloreth (fl. early 1E)
[Mavos Siloreth](Lore_Mavos_Siloreth.md) was a renowned [Chimeri](Lore_Chimer.md) mage that lived during the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md) amid a conflict between the Chimer and the [Nedes](Lore_Nede.md). He is known for having sealed one of the [Brothers of Strife](Lore_Brothers_of_Strife_(creature).md), [Balreth](Lore_Brothers_of_Strife_(creature).md#Balreth). Mavos was among the mages that traveled to [Stonefalls](Lore_Stonefalls.md) from [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md) with the intent to seal the Brothers of Strife. Mavos utilized twin [Flame Atronachs](Lore_Flame_Atronach.md), Blaze and Ragebinder, to draw Balreth's power. In the end, Mavos was able to subdue Balreth but had later passed away. His remains were interred into the necropolis of [Othrenis](Lore_Othrenis.md).

In [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), Mavos' spirit was contacted by an [Agent](Lore_Soulless_One.md) of the [Ebonheart Pact](Lore_Ebonheart_Pact.md) intending to find a way to seal Balreth into [Ash Mountain](Lore_Ash_Mountain.md) once more. Siloreth showed the Agent his memories of when he initially sealed Balreth. With this knowledge, the Pact was able to seal Balreth. Later, Tanval Indoril summoned [Sadal](Lore_Sadal.md) at the [Tormented Spire](Lore_Tormented_Spire.md). Mavos and the other mages that sealed the Brothers were present at the Spire.

#### King Maxevian (fl. 2E 434)
King of [Daggerfall](Lore_Daggerfall.md) during the mid- [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). In [2E 434](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_434), he sent the [Pale Watch](Lore_Pale_Watch.md) into [Wrothgar](Lore_Wrothgar.md) on a five year mission to ensure the [Orcs](Lore_Orc.md) would never again rebuild Orsinium.<sup>[[10]](#cite_note-KMO-10)</sup><sup>[[11]](#cite_note-LKM-11)</sup>

#### Mecinar (?b - [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201))
[Mecinar](Lore_Mecinar.md) was a Dunmer [Clockwork Apostle](Lore_Clockwork_Apostles.md) within the [Clockwork City](Lore_Clockwork_City.md), and an apprentice to the mystic [Sotha Sil](Lore_Sotha_Sil.md), who suggested that Mecinar's intelligence could possibly rival that of each of his previous apprentices. Sotha Sil did, however, take precautious note of Mecinar's 'dangerous intellect', but decided against constraining him, claiming it would be a sin against potential. But eventually, his suspicions were confirmed when Mecinar showed to be desperately ambitious in his research, conducting grotesque transmutation experiments on unwilling acolytes. Through 'steel and sorcery', Mecinar merged their bodies with those of beasts, the result being [Abominations](Lore_Abomination.md). These Abominations appeared to be perversions of the [fabricants](Lore_Fabricants.md) that Sotha Sil had designed while trying to create the perfect life-form. And so, to protect the Clockwork City and the valuable power within it, Mecinar was cast out. In his time away, he plotted his return, shaping his own body into a tool able to absorb power otherwise uncontrollable.

#### Medora Direnni (fl. 3E 402 - 417)
[Medora Direnni](Lore_Medora_Direnni.md), the **Lady of Balfiera** (also called the **Witch of Daggerfall**, the **fairy lady**, and—perhaps pejoratively—the **Queen of Oblivion**) was a [Breton](Lore_Breton.md) noblewoman<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_nb1)</sup> from the Isle of [Balfiera](Lore_Balfiera.md), the court sorceress of [Daggerfall](Lore_Daggerfall_(kingdom).md)'s King [Lysandus](Lore_Lysandus.md), and his mistress. The sorceress was of [Direnni](Lore_Direnni.md) Clan lineage, and resided in the Direnni's ancestral home, the ancient and massive [Direnni Tower](Lore_Adamantine_Tower.md) of Balfiera.

During the [War of Betony](Lore_War_of_Betony.md), Lysandus' wife, Queen [Mynisera](Lore_Mynisera.md), banished Medora from the Daggerfall court. The sorceress retreated to Balfiera, but when Mynisera placed a curse upon Direnni Tower and trapped Medora within, Lysandus decided to fake his death and live with Medora. Unfortunately, the king was assassinated during the war. When the king's ghost began haunting the streets of [Daggerfall](Lore_Daggerfall.md), Medora tried to contact Lysandus' spirit, but only ended up raising the dead all over the island. Some time later, an [agent](Lore_Hero.md#The_Agent) of the [Blades](Lore_Blades.md), sent to investigate Lysandus' ghost, later helped Medora lift the curse upon Direnni Tower. In return, Medora assisted in the agent's efforts to put Lysandus' spirit to rest.

#### Grand Marshal Medno Oren (fl. 2E 582)
[Medno Oren](Lore_Medno_Oren.md) was a [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) leader of the [Buoyant Armigers](Lore_Buoyant_Armigers.md) during the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md) of the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). They held the position of the Grand Marshal among the Armigers and were known as **the Exalted Bard of the First Order**.

#### Armiger Mendel Eves (fl. Third Era)
[Mendel Eves](Lore_Mendel_Eves.md) was a [Buoyant Armiger](Lore_Buoyant_Armiger.md) of the [Tribunal Temple](Lore_Tribunal_Temple.md) operating in the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md). Despite being a [Nord](Lore_Nord.md) in an overwhelmingly [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) order, Mendel Eves was a cherished member of the Armigers, seen as brave and honorable. Mendel wielded the [Cleaver of St. Felms](Lore_Cleaver_of_St._Felms.md), an ironic weapon for the Armiger to carry given the [eponymous saint](Lore_Felms.md) the axe was named for was famously a scourge on the Nordic people. Mendel died fighting against the dreaded [Sixth House](Lore_Sixth_House.md) in Tureynulal, the former [Dwemer tower](Lore_Dwemer_Ruins.md) turned House Dagoth citadel.

#### Menta Na (fl. 3E 427)
[Menta Na](Lore_Menta_Na.md), also known as the **Daedroth of Kora-Dur** or the **Terror of Kora-Dur**, is a [daedroth](Lore_Daedroth.md) monarch in the service of [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md). He is tasked by the Prince to cause havoc and terror in [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). The caverns of Kora-Dur in northern [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md) acted as his lair. He is associated with a powerful Daedric mace known as the Mace of Menta Na.

#### Thane Mera Stormcloak (fl. 2E 582)
[Mera Stormcloak](Lore_Mera_Stormcloak.md) was a lawthane of [Windhelm](Lore_Windhelm.md) in the mid- [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), during the time of the [Ebonheart Pact](Lore_Ebonheart_Pact.md). She was a member of the [Stormcloak Clan](Lore_Stormcloak_Clan.md), a [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) family which would eventually rise to prominence in the city. She was also a staunch friend and ally of her liege, [Jorunn the Skald-King](Lore_Jorunn.md).

[Flaccus Terentius](Lore_Flaccus_Terentius.md) met Mera during his imperial visit to Windhelm some time between [2E 578](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_578) and [2E 581](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_581), during which time she served as lawthane. After introducing himself to Jorunn, the Envoy-Scholar was brought on a tour of the city by Mera and the two quickly became friends. After several days of drunken revelry, Terentius accompanied Mera and her hunting party into the wilds of [Eastmarch](Lore_Eastmarch.md) until he became separated from the group and continued on his journey.

In [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), Jorunn's [Konunleikar](Lore_Konunleikar.md) celebration took place in Windhelm. Among the attendees was the [Stormfist Clan](Lore_Stormfist_Clan.md), who had been in isolation following Prince [Fildgor](Lore_Fildgor.md)'s exile. Suspecting treachery, Mera appointed the [Vestige](Lore_The_Vestige.md) as Windhelm's Champion and investigated the clan's activities within the city. Her suspicions proved correct when the Stormfists made an attempt on Jorunn's life as part of Fildgor's failed attempt to usurp his brother as High King. Ultimately Fildgor's forces were defeated.

#### General Mercedene (?b - 1E 970)
General [Mercedene](Lore_Mercedene.md), also known as the **Beast of the Reach**, was a notorious [Reachman](Lore_Reachman.md) warrior and leader of the [Winterborn](Lore_Winterborn.md) clan during the mid- [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md). Said to be a vicious woman who reveled in blood and death, she is best known for her part in the infamous [Siege of Orsinium](Lore_Siege_of_Orsinium.md).

#### Guild Master Mercer Frey (?b - [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201))
[Mercer Frey](Lore_Mercer_Frey.md) was a [Breton](Lore_Breton.md) thief and skilled swordsman who lived during the second and early third centuries of the [Fourth Era](Lore_Fourth_Era.md). He began his career of thievery as a member of the [Thieves Guild](Lore_Thieves_Guild.md) in [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), where he learned from Guild Master [Gallus Desidenius](Lore_Gallus_Desidenius.md). His mentor was also secretly a member of the [Nightingale Trinity](Lore_Nightingale_Trinity.md), a group which Mercer was eventually inducted into. Mercer would go on to betray the Nightingales and [Nocturnal](Lore_Nocturnal.md) by desecrating the [Twilight Sepulcher](Lore_Twilight_Sepulcher.md) and taking the [Skeleton Key](Lore_Skeleton_Key.md) for himself. He then used the key to commit crimes against the guild until his activities were discovered by Gallus around [4E 176](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_176). In retaliation, Mercer murdered Gallus, framed another Nightingale, [Karliah](Lore_Karliah.md), and took his late mentor's place as Guild Master. He hunted Karliah for over two decades; she, in turn, did her best to undermine him and his allies. In [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201), with the help of a [new guild member](Lore_Last_Dragonborn.md), Karliah exposed Mercer, reformed the Nightingale Trinity, and saw Gallus finally avenged when Mercer was killed by the new guildmate.

#### Saint Meris the Peacemaker (fl. before 3E 427)
[Saint Meris the Peacemaker](Lore_Saint_Meris_the_Peacemaker.md) is the [Dunmeri](Lore_Dunmer.md) Patron of Farmers and Laborers. As a little girl, Saint Meris showed healing gifts, and trained as a Healer. She ended a long and bloody House War, intervening on the battlefield in her white robe to heal warriors and spellcrafters without regard to faction. The troops of all Houses adopted white robes as her standard, and refused to shed the blood of their brethren.<sup>[[12]](#cite_note-LOTS-12)</sup> To this day, weapons and armor which bear her name are used to offer respite, rather than do damage.<sup>[[13]](#cite_note-Morrowind-13)</sup>

#### Chief Meroch (fl. before 2E 582)
**Chief** [Meroch](Lore_Meroch.md), along with figures like [Fiasof](Lore_Fiasof.md), [Gwyna](Lore_Gwyna.md), or [Rowolan](Lore_Rowolan.md), was part of the oral tradition of the [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md). He has become the subject of a tale, known as *[The Two-Faced Nord](Lore_Reach_Bedtime_Stories.md)*, shared as a bedtime story for Reach children and becoming a part of the Reachfolk's cultural legacy.

#### Guildmaster Merric at-Aswala (fl. before 2E 582 - 2E 582)
[Merric at-Aswala](Lore_Merric_at-Aswala.md) **Resolute War Horn** was a [Redguard](Lore_Redguard.md) member of the [Fighters Guild](Lore_Fighters_Guild.md) and follower of [Stendarr](Lore_Stendarr.md) during the time of the [Planemeld](Lore_Planemeld.md) crisis and rose to the position of Guildmaster in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582). Prior to joining the Guild, he served as a guard of the [royal family](Lore_Phyllocid_Dynasty.md) of [Sentinel](Lore_Sentinel.md) and became a teacher and eventual mentor to [Prince Azah](Lore_Azah.md).

A few years after becoming Guildmaster, several Fighters guildhalls across [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) were attacked by the resurgent [Worm Cult](Lore_Worm_Cult.md) and Merric investigated the matter. His search led him to the [Shornhelm](Lore_Shornhelm.md) Mages Guild sanctum, where he was killed destroying a previously unknown device known as a Soul Reaper created by the cult.

#### Diviner Methal Seran (fl. 3E 427)
[Methal Seran](Lore_Methal_Seran.md) was a powerful [conjurer](Lore_Conjuration.md), and esteemed scholar, priest, and a Diviner within the ranks of the [Tribunal Temple](Lore_Tribunal_Temple.md). In addition to his mastery of Conjuration, he was also an accomplished mentor in the arts of [Mysticism](Lore_Mysticism.md) and [Alteration](Lore_Alteration.md), and a skilled practitioner of [Restoration](Lore_Restoration.md) and [Illusion](Lore_Illusion.md).

#### Countess Millona Umbranox (fl. 3E 422 - 433)
[Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) ruler of [Anvil](Lore_Anvil.md) during the [Oblivion Crisis](Lore_Oblivion_Crisis.md). She was much more popular than her husband, Corvus,<sup>[[14]](#cite_note-GTA-14)</sup> who disappeared around [3E 422](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_422) and did not return until [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433).<sup>[[15]](#cite_note-Oblivion-15)</sup>

#### Lawman Milyn Faram (fl. 3E 427)
[Milyn Faram](Lore_Milyn_Faram.md), a [Telvanni](Lore_Telvanni.md) lawman, was renowned for his expertise in the dark arts of [necromancy](Lore_Necromancy.md), as well as his groundbreaking contributions to the field of [scroll](Lore_Scrolls.md) [enchanting](Lore_Enchanting.md). He was credited with developing a new method for imbuing scrolls of summoning with the power to call forth Daedric beings, based on a recovered [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md) machine. This innovation marked a significant departure from the traditional practice of using parts of the creatures being summoned, such as their skin or heart, and enabled the creation of highly effective scrolls at a fraction of the cost. Although his research was regarded as unconventional, it was also deemed to hold great potential. In addition to being more cost-effective to create, Milyn Faram's scrolls of summoning also boasted a longer duration of the summoned [Daedra](Lore_Daedra.md)'s presence on Nirn, as compared to traditional capabilities of enchanted scrolls.

#### Miraak (?b - [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201))
[Miraak](Lore_Miraak.md) (meaning *Allegiance Guide* in the [dragon language](Lore_Dragon_Language.md)), also known as the **First Servant**, was originally a [Dragon Priest](Lore_Dragon_Priest.md) in the [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md). He is the **First [Dragonborn](Lore_Dragonborn.md)**, although that term would not become used until after the time of [St. Alessia](Lore_Alessia.md), the first Dragonborn recorded in history. He ruled over the island of [Solstheim](Lore_Solstheim.md), where a large temple was dedicated to him.

#### Master Wizard Mirabelle Ervine (?b - [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201))
[Mirabelle Ervine](Lore_Mirabelle_Ervine.md) was a [Breton](Lore_Breton.md) mage who served as a Master Wizard of the [College of Winterhold](Lore_College_of_Winterhold.md), reporting directly to Arch-Mage [Savos Aren](Lore_Savos_Aren.md) in the [Fourth Era](Lore_Fourth_Era.md). She was commonly acknowledged by other college mages as running day-to-day operations for him

#### Miramor (?b - [1E 2920](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_2920))
According to the historical fiction *[2920, The Last Year of the First Era](Lore_2920,_The_Last_Year_of_the_First_Era.md)*, Miramor was a soldier of the [Imperial Legion](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md) during the Battle of Bodrum in [1E 2920](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_2920), and he deserted after [Emperor Reman III](Lore_Reman_III.md) retreated from the field. It's claimed that Miramor ambushed and killed [Prince Juilek](Lore_Juilek.md) in [Dorsza Pass](Lore_Dorsza_Pass.md), [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md), mistaking him for the Emperor, [Reman III](Lore_Reman_III.md). Miramor was purportedly murdered by the [Morag Tong](Lore_Morag_Tong.md) during another assassination attempt on Reman III in Bodrum.

#### Mirmulnir (?b - [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201))
[Mirmulnir](Lore_Mirmulnir.md) is a [dragon](Lore_Dragon.md) whose name means "Allegiance Strong Hunt" (or more accurately "Loyal Mortal Hunter") in the [Dragon Language](Lore_Dragon_Language.md).

Mirmulnir was one of many dragons to survive the [Dragon War](Lore_Dragon_War.md), and one of the few who successfully avoided persecution by the [Akaviri](Lore_Akavir.md) [Dragonguard](Lore_Dragonguard.md). By [2E 373](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_373), he was still purportedly alive, having last been sighted by the [Blades](Lore_Blades.md) in the [Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md) in [2E 212](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_212).

It is unknown if Mirmulnir was slain before the return of his master [Alduin](Lore_Alduin.md) in [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201). Upon his return, Alduin began the process of resurrecting the many dead dragons buried throughout Skyrim in ancient times by the [Dragon Cult](Lore_Dragon_Cult.md). Mirmulnir was one of the first dragons to make a reappearance, when he attacked a watchtower west of [Whiterun](Lore_Whiterun.md), killing several guardsmen. The Jarl of Whiterun, [Balgruuf the Greater](Lore_Balgruuf_the_Greater.md), sent a group of soldiers to deal with the dragon. Among them was the [Last Dragonborn](Lore_Last_Dragonborn.md), whose Dragonblood was revealed when Mirmulnir was slain and his soul absorbed. This event was noticed by the [Greybeards](Lore_Greybeards.md), and the Dragonborn was summoned to [High Hrothgar](Lore_High_Hrothgar.md). Having had his soul devoured by another dovah, Mirmulnir was killed permanently and cannot be raised again.

#### Commander Mishaxhi (?b - c. [1E 2703](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_2703))
**Mishaxhi** was one of the [Tsaesci](Lore_Tsaesci_(race).md) commanders of the invasion of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) in [1E 2703](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_2703). He led the front against [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) from their base of operations in [Pale Pass](Lore_Pale_Pass.md). He starved to death along with the rest of his soldiers when orders to ration the food supply never arrived. His uniquely crafted [katana](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Mishaxhi%27s_Cleaver) somehow found its way to the Dragonguard, where it was passed on from knight to knight until at least the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md).<sup>[[15]](#cite_note-Oblivion-15)</sup>

#### Master Archer Missun Akin (fl. 3E 346 - 427)
[Missun Akin](Lore_Missun_Akin.md) was a [Dunmeri](Lore_Dunmer.md) sharpshooter and acrobat who was active in the late years of the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md). In his time, he was a master archer that learned from the previous master, [Hiomaste](Lore_Hiomaste.md) of Moliva, and avenged his death by slaying the Duchess of [Woda](Lore_Woda.md). He subsequently retired to his home in [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md), specifically the wastes of [Red Mountain](Lore_Red_Mountain.md) and lived in seclusion in the fortress of Falasmaryon.

#### Mistria
[Mistria](Lore_Mistria.md) is an unknown entity. [Wood Elves](Lore_Wood_Elves.md) sometimes swear to "Mistria's Curse".

#### Mithas (fl. before 1E 700)
Said to be the greatest of the [Dwarven](Lore_Dwemer.md) [blacksmiths](Lore_Smithing.md), Mithas was the creator of the [Anvil of Mithas](Lore_Anvil_of_Mithas.md). When twinned with the [Hammer of Gharen](Lore_Hammer_of_Gharen.md), the Anvil can produce the finest weapons and armor.<sup>[[16]](#cite_note-16)</sup>

#### Modir the Far (fl. Early First Era)
[Modir the Far](Lore_Modir_the_Far.md) was an ancient [Nord](Lore_Nord.md) [Tongue](Lore_Tongues.md), and according to some sources a [Greybeard](Lore_Greybeards.md), who erected a [Word Wall](Lore_Word_Walls.md) at [Shearpoint](Lore_Shearpoint.md) in honor of his brother Oskar's memory. He belonged to a clan known for its powerful voice and strong affinity for the [Thu'um](Lore_Thu%27um.md), an aptitude his brother, dubbed the Fool, lacked.

#### Lord Mogref (fl. 3E 402 - 403)
**Lord Mogref** of [Betony](Lore_Betony.md) was seeking peace when he asked for [Daggerfall](Lore_Daggerfall_(kingdom).md)'s protection on the Isle of Betony. The island had long been independent, but as the piracy in the [Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md) increased, Mogref truly realized Betony's vulnerability. [King Lysandus](Lore_Lysandus.md) agreed to be Betony's liege, on advice of many, including his Archpriest of [Kynareth](Lore_Kynareth.md), Lord Vanech.<sup>[[17]](#cite_note-NWOB-17)</sup>

#### Queen Mohi-Titona (?b - ?d)
Supposedly the Queen of [Akavir](Lore_Akavir.md), Mohi-Titona is said to control a fleet of "dragon ships".<sup>[[18]](#cite_note-OBThurindil-18)</sup> It is unknown whether or not she is a real figure.

#### Molag Grunda
[Molag Grunda](Lore_Molag_Grunda.md) is a powerful [Winged Twilight](Lore_Winged_Twilight.md). She is the daughter of [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md), although it is unclear what this relationship means to the [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Prince.md). She has been described as being sarcastic and rude.

Molag Grunda was once charged with guarding the path across the Chasm of [Coldharbour](Lore_Coldharbour.md), which divides the Shrouded Plain and the Black Garrison from the Fist of Stone. She was known to be a cruel mistress, and the [Dremora](Lore_Dremora.md) sent to serve at her court were never happy with their assignment. She kept a pet [flesh atronach](Lore_Flesh_Atronach.md) named Tiny for protection.

The need to defend the Chasm's crossing grew when the Endless Stair was constructed by the [Mad Architect](Lore_Mad_Architect.md) in the Fist of Stone circa [2E 579](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_579), making the region's protection essential to proceed with Molag Bal's attempted [Planemeld](Lore_Planemeld.md) with [Mundus](Lore_Mundus.md). In [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582) an invasion force from [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) came to Coldharbour to end the Planemeld, assembling in the [Hollow City](Lore_Hollow_City.md). The invaders attacked the Chasm to secure passage to the Endless Stair, and Molag Grunda was slain in her gatehouse along with Tiny.

Some time after this, Molag Grunda came to Tamriel, where she consorted with a lowly [frost atronach](Lore_Frost_Atronach.md) named Nomeg Gwai. They made their lair in the uncharted cave of Dubdilla, in the [Grazelands](Lore_Grazelands.md) of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md). Molag Bal was not pleased with this match, and in [3E 427](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_427) he sent the [Nerevarine](Lore_Nerevarine.md) to kill them in return for a [vampirism](Lore_Vampirism.md) cure. Molag Grunda's soul then returned to [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md), where she and her lover were punished by Molag Bal.

#### Molag Kena
[Molag Kena](Lore_Molag_Kena.md) is a powerful [Xivkyn](Lore_Xivkyn.md) who serves [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md). Referred to as the xivkyn monarch or sovereign, she is very gifted in the use of magic, particularly in the school of destruction. She wields powerful lightning magic in combat.

Molag Kena, disguised as the Empress Regent [Clivia Tharn](Lore_Clivia_Tharn.md), ruled over the Imperial City for an indeterminate amount of time. She consistently requested troops from the Imperial Legion to report to her personally, off the books. She moved the troops this way and that, having them defend positions with no strategic value and sending them off to die at the hands of the invading [Daedra](Lore_Daedra.md) for nothing. Molag Kena manipulated legion officials with blackmail and other underhanded tactics to do what she wanted, and called one General Valerius to the White-Gold Tower before the Imperial City was overrun by Molag Bal's forces.

She eventually decided to "retake" the [White-Gold Tower](Lore_White-Gold_Tower.md) in a last-ditch effort to hasten the merging of worlds. Her mission was to claim an [Elder Scroll](Lore_Elder_Scroll.md) to initiate an event known as the [Planemeld Obverse](Lore_Planemeld.md#The_Planemeld_Obverse_and_the_Sublime_Brazier). She was stopped by a [moth priestess](Lore_Cult_of_the_Ancestor_Moth.md) named Sister Terran Arminus atop the White-Gold Tower with the help of the [Undaunted](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Undaunted), who defeated her before she could complete the ritual.

#### Sage Montalius (fl. late 3E)
In the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), Montalius surprised many when he discovered that a disenfranchised branch of the [Septim](Lore_Tiber_Septim.md) family was involved in [Empress Katariah](Lore_Katariah.md)'s death in [3E 200](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_200).<sup>[[19]](#cite_note-BHOTE2-19)</sup>

#### Moon-Emperor (?b - [1E 461](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_461))
The [Moon-Emperor](Lore_Moon-Emperor.md) was the ruler of unified Elsweyr and held authority over the Elsweyr Kingdoms in the early years of the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md), in the years leading to [1E 461](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_461). It is unclear whether this term referred to the title used by a line of emperors or to a singular last Emperor from the early years of the First Era.

During his rule the lands now known as Elsweyr were open to all sixteen clans, allowing them to roam freely to fulfill their roles under the Moon-Emperor’s guidance. Certain tasks, like shipbuilding and moon-sugar farming, required fixed locations, leading some clans to establish permanent settlements to support these activities. During this time, the sixteen Khajiiti clans wandered throughout the province, each performing a distinct function. For instance, the [Ne Quin-al](Lore_Anequina.md) was made up of warriors who trained their members in martial disciplines and battle tactics. While some claimed that these clans were tied to particular regions or realms, this view was deemed overly simplistic. The Khajiit traveled to where they were needed and desired. As the clans honed their skills and external pressures began to force them into defined roles and smaller geographical areas, the idea of tribal regions started to take shape within the Khajiiti perspective.

The last recorded Moon-Emperor was overthrown by [Darloc Brae](Lore_Darloc_Brae.md), marking the beginning of the [Anequine Conquests](Lore_Anequine_Conquests.md) of 1E 461.

Examples of the graceful architecture of the Khajiit could be seen in the city of Dune, which paid tribute to the divine nature of the moons and evoked the ancient memories of Tamriel, when the Khajiiti Moon-Emperor ruled over this entire province.

#### Morachellis Hag-Husband (fl. before 2E 582)
[Morachellis Hag-Husband](Lore_Morachellis_Hag-Husband.md) (or simply called **Morachellis**) was a legendary skald and philosopher who hailed from the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). The exact time he was active is unknown, but in his prime, Morachellis was well known for his eccentricity and rose to prominence with his signature pan flute, which was crafted from the leg bone of his twin brother after his accidental death. However, the story behind his pan flute's origin is dubious as Morachellis would sometimes confirm it or deny it.

#### King Moraelyn (fl. 1E 5th century)
King [Moraelyn](Lore_Moraelyn.md) of the [Ra'athim](Lore_Ra%27athim.md) clan of [Chimer](Lore_Chimer.md) (later [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md))<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_Chimer)</sup> was a [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md) "witch-king" of [Ebonheart](Lore_Ebonheart.md) who was famed in his time as the finest fighter in [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md), as well as a wise leader. He is one of the most famous heroes in Tamrielic history, which was enough to earn him the distinction **Champion of Tamriel**. Many well-known stories and songs about him remain popular. He was a prominent character in the historical fiction book series *[King Edward](Lore_King_Edward.md)*.

#### Mighty Mordra (fl. 2E 582)
[Mighty Mordra](Lore_Mordra.md), also known as **Mordra the Mighty**, was an [Orc](Lore_Orc.md) fighter, and a founding member of the [Undaunted](Lore_Undaunted.md), along with [Turuk Redclaws](Lore_Turuk_Redclaws.md) and [Kailstig the Axe](Lore_Kailstig_the_Axe.md). The Undaunted were a group of brave and boisterous adventurers who were active during the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md).

#### Mordrin Hanin (?b - c. 1E 500)
[Mordrin Hanin](Lore_Mordrin_Hanin.md) was a revered figure in [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md), yet little is recorded about his life in the present day. What has been recorded was the events that transpired after his death that was a notable spectacle, and the vast treasures he was buried with had sparked the interests of treasure hunters seeking to unearth his tomb. This led to scholarly journals such as the book *[Hanin's Wake](Lore_Hanin%27s_Wake.md)* being published.

#### Morella (fl. 2E 582)
[Morella](Lore_Morella.md) **the Cruel** was a [Breton](Lore_Breton.md), and one of the most infamous thieves during the turbulent times of the [Three Banners War](Lore_Three_Banners_War.md) in the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md) of the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md).

#### Morga, Witch of the Black Forest (?b - ?d)
[Morga the Witch](Lore_Morga.md), also known as the **Witch of the Black Forest**, was a powerful [Orc](Lore_Orc.md) [witch](Lore_Witch.md) (later [lich](Lore_Lich.md)) with many [Goblin](Lore_Goblin.md) followers, who once menaced a [kingdom](Lore_Hero.md#Dynasty_of_Odar_the_Brave) in [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) during the [Witches Festival](Lore_Witches_Festival.md). She had tricked the kingdom's inhabitants into taking out her rival, "the Warlock", eventually leading to her defeat by the same citizens she once betrayed.

#### Queen Morgiah ([3E 384](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_384) - ?d)
[Queen Morgiah](Lore_Morgiah.md) was the daughter of [Queen Barenziah](Lore_Barenziah.md) and [General Symmachus](Lore_Symmachus.md) of [Mournhold](Lore_Mournhold.md), and the younger sister of Prince (and future King) [Hlaalu Helseth](Lore_Hlaalu_Helseth.md).

Morgiah was named after Symmachus' mother, and was known to be well loved by her father. Sadly, the princess was born in troubled times; the kingdom was plagued with civil unrest as a result of the [Imperial Simulacrum](Lore_Imperial_Simulacrum.md). In [3E 391](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_391), at the age of eight, Morgiah accompanied her mother and brother on a journey to the Imperial City. Barenziah was there to plead with [the emperor](Lore_Uriel_Septim_VII.md) for aid, and hoped the presence of the children would soften his heart. However the (false) emperor remained unmoved, and that evening word came that Symmachus was killed in a revolt. The surviving royals were forced into exile. That same evening, Barenziah met King [Eadwyre](Lore_Eadwyre.md), and within a few years the pair were wed. Morgiah again became a princess, now of the Kingdom of [Wayrest](Lore_Wayrest_(kingdom).md).

In the years prior to the [Warp in the West](Lore_Warp_in_the_West.md), Princess Morgiah had garnered a reputation as a "manipulative witch" among the people of the kingdom. She saw little future in Wayrest, as Eadwyre's children, Helseth and [Elysana](Lore_Elysana.md), fought for succession. As a result, Morgiah sought to arrange a marriage with King [Reman Karoodil](Lore_Karoodil.md), ruler of the Kingdom of [Firsthold](Lore_Firsthold.md) on [Auridon](Lore_Auridon.md). To secure the king's hand, she endeavored to give him that which he desired most—to speak again with a son who had died. To this end, Morgiah made contact with the notorious necromancer [Mannimarco, the King of Worms](Lore_Mannimarco.md), in the [Dragontail Mountains](Lore_Dragontail_Mountains.md) of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md). With the help of an [Agent of the Blades](Lore_The_Agent.md), the deal was struck. Mannimarco held up his end of the bargain, and in return Morgiah promised to give him her "first", though exactly what this meant remains a mystery. Morgiah and Reman were wed after a three year engagement.

As a [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md), Queen Morgiah was not particularly well-liked by the culturally xenophobic [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md) of Firsthold either, and is known to have quelled a revolt of [Trebbite Monks](Lore_Trebbite_Monks.md) during the early years of her rule. The couple had two children by the end of the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), Goranthir and Rinnala, who were both Dunmer in appearance despite being half-Altmer. Regardless of appearances, however, the children were considered rightful heirs to the throne. In [4E 22](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_22), the [Thalmor](Lore_Thalmor.md) successfully overthrew the monarchy in the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md) seizing control of the region, leaving Morgiah and her family to an unknown fate.

#### Morian Zenas (fl. mid 2E)
[Morian Zenas](Lore_Morian_Zenas.md) is a master conjurer and the author of the book *[On Oblivion](Lore_On_Oblivion.md)*. As Professor of Transliminal Studies at the [Arcane University](Lore_Arcane_University.md), of which he was a founding member, he made it his life's work to find a way into the realm of [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md), trying many different methods, but always failing.

#### Emperor Moricar the Middling ([2E 518](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_518) - [2E 564](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_564))
[Moricar](Lore_Moricar.md) (also called **Moricar the Middling**) was an Emperor of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) and the second emperor of the [Reachman](Lore_Reachmen.md) dynasty called the [Longhouse Emperors](Lore_Longhouse_Emperors.md), who ruled the [Empire of Cyrodiil](Lore_Empire_of_Cyrodiil_(Interregnum).md) during the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md). He was the longest-reigning Longhouse Emperor, ruling for over twenty years. During his reign, he worked to fulfill the bargain known as the [Four Ambitions](Lore_Four_Ambitions.md) that his father made with the [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Princes.md) [Mehrunes Dagon](Lore_Mehrunes_Dagon.md). In [2E 563](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_563), Moricar led an invasion of [Western Skyrim](Lore_Western_Skyrim.md), but High King [Svargrim](Lore_Svargrim.md)'s army attacked and routed his army outside of [Solitude](Lore_Solitude.md), leaving Moricar gravely wounded. As a result of his wounds, Moricar died the following year. He was preceded by his father, [Durcorach](Lore_Durcorach.md), and succeeded by his son, [Leovic](Lore_Leovic.md).

#### Empress Morihatha ([3E 288](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_288) - [3E 339](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_339))
[Morihatha Septim](Lore_Morihatha.md) was the nineteenth [empress](Lore_Cyrodilic_Emperors.md) of the [Third Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md) and [Septim Dynasty](Lore_Septim_Dynasty.md), reigning for nineteen years, from [3E 320](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_320) to [3E 339](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_339). During her reign, Morihatha began the efforts to reunify [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) and end the revolutions and civil wars that had plagued the Empire since the days of her grandfather [Cephorus II](Lore_Cephorus_II.md). She was considered the first in a line of particularly strong and capable rulers of Tamriel. She was preceded by her brother, [Uriel VI](Lore_Uriel_VI.md), and was succeeded by her nephew, [Pelagius IV](Lore_Pelagius_IV.md).

#### King Morimath (?b - [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433))
[King Morimath](Lore_Morimath.md), also known as the **King of Miscarcand** or the **Miscarcand Lich**, was the last king of the [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) city-state of [Miscarcand](Lore_Miscarcand.md) and an infamous [lich](Lore_Lich.md).

#### Morokei, the Deathless (?b - [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201))
[Morokei](Lore_Morokei.md), also known as **the Deathless**, was a [Dragon Priest](Lore_Dragon_Priest.md) who inhabited [Bromjunaar](Lore_Bromjunaar.md) in the [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md), when the city served as the capital of the [Dragon Cult](Lore_Dragon_Cult.md). Like many of his fellow priests, he managed to achieve a state of [lichdom](Lore_Lich.md) through the eternal worship of his [draugr](Lore_Draugr.md) servants. By virtue of his high rank, he was gifted a magical [moonstone mask](Lore_Dragon_Priest_Masks.md#Morokei) by his [dragon](Lore_Dragon.md) overlord. The power given to him by the dragons was such that even in undeath, he could not be killed by anything other than the [Thu'um](Lore_Thu%27um.md) of a dragon. As a result, he continued to dwell within the crypts of Bromjunaar's ruins, later known as [Labyrinthian](Lore_Labyrinthian.md), until his destruction circa [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201). As a Dragon Priest, he was a powerful mage, also able to wield the Thu'um in battle.

#### Jarl Morryn (fl. 2E 577 - 2E 582)
**Jarl** [Morryn](Lore_Morryn.md) was a [Nord](Lore_Nord.md) ruler of [Whiterun Hold](Lore_Whiterun_Hold.md), active in the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). She was related to the royal line of the [Western Skryim](Lore_Western_Skyrim.md) and was deemed one of the greatest Nord diplomats.

#### King Mortyn (fl. 3E 80)
A little-known King of [Daggerfall](Lore_Daggerfall_(kingdom).md) who ruled in and around [3E 80](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_80). His father was named Gothlyr.<sup>[[20]](#cite_note-TWQ1-20)</sup>

#### Movarth Piquine (?b - [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201))
[Movarth Piquine](Lore_Movarth_Piquine.md) was a [Nord](Lore_Nord.md) vampire who likely lived from sometime in the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md) to [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201).

In life, Movarth was ironically a skilled vampire hunter. He began his career as a trainer in the [Fighters Guild](Lore_Fighters_Guild.md), which taught him skill in battle and the value of asking questions. He claimed mastery of unarmed combat. He was stoic and almost never surprised due to his dedication to hunt vampires. Tissina Gray directed him to a priest in [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) to learn about vampires. Using the priest's knowledge, Movarth hunted many different types of vampires across [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md), including the [Volkihar](Lore_Volkihar.md) of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) and the many tribes of northern [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md). Movarth failed to find any members of the [Cyrodiil Vampyrum Order](Lore_Cyrodiil_Vampyrum_Order.md) due to their ability to blend into society. When he returned to his mentor, the priest revealed that he was actually a Cyrodilic vampire himself. Taken by surprise, Movarth fell to the priest, who fed on him and turned him into a vampire. The priest later anonymously published the story in the book [*Immortal Blood*](Lore_Immortal_Blood.md).

Suffering and anguish had marked him early in his life, destroying the features which would have otherwise been handsome. Movarth went on to become a master vampire and create his own coven. Although he was believed to have been destroyed a century earlier, Movarth resurfaced in [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201) and planned to take over the town of [Morthal](Lore_Morthal.md) in Skyrim. He turned a [Nord](Lore_Nord.md) woman named Alva into a vampire, and commanded her to seduce the guardsmen of Morthal and infect them as well in preparation for a takeover. Movarth could then use the town for protection, and the townsfolk as cattle. His plans were undone when suspicions were raised and the Jarl ordered a [stranger](Lore_Hero.md) to look into the strange events in town. Movarth and his coven were slain when a mob of villagers stormed his underground lair northeast of town.

#### Harbinger Mryfwiil the Withdrawn (fl. early 1E)
[Mryfwiil the Withdrawn](Lore_Mryfwiil_the_Withdrawn.md) was a [Nord](Lore_Nord.md) Harbinger of the [Companions](Lore_Companions.md) several hundred years after the death of [Ysgramor](Lore_Ysgramor.md). Known for his steady hand and wisdom, he was among the most notable Harbingers recorded by [Swyk the Long-Sighted](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Swyk_the_Long-Sighted).

#### Msirae Faythung (?b - [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433))
Msirae Faythung was a Nord warrior that was a champion to Mehrunes Dagon, but had failed Mehrunes while trying to accomplish some unknown task. As punishment, [The Kyn](Lore_Dremora.md) carved his chest open with [Mehrunes' Razor](Lore_Mehrunes%27_Razor.md) and doomed him to stand statue-like in the Nefarivigum and guard Mehrunes' Razor for eternity.

In [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433), a rogue Telvanni Arch-Mage named [Frathen Drothan](Lore_Frathen_Drothan.md) assembled an army of mercenaries and began a search for the Razor in Sundercliff Watch, an abandoned Imperial outpost and iron mine. It was rumored that the entrance to the ancient Ayleid city of [Varsa Baalim](Lore_Varsa_Baalim.md) had been uncovered, and with it the Nefarivigum. Later that year the [Hero of Kvatch](Lore_Hero_of_Kvatch.md) caught wind of his plans and defeated both Drothan and Msirae Faythung.<sup>[[21]](#cite_note-Oblivion MZ-21)</sup>

#### Mulaamnir (DE - 2E 582)
[Mulaamnir](Lore_Mulaamnir.md) was a [Dragon](Lore_Dragon.md) whose name means "Strong-Serve-Hunt" in the [Dragon Language](Lore_Dragon_Language.md). He was adorned in azure scales, and as a storm dragon, possessed an array of lightning-related abilities.

#### Grandee Murahd (fl. early 2E)
**Grandee** [Murahd](Lore_Murahd.md) of [Rihad](Lore_Rihad.md) was a prominent [Crown](Lore_Crowns.md) [Redguard](Lore_Redguard.md) nobleman active during the mid– [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). He was a contemporary of High King [Ja-Fr](Lore_Ja-Fr.md) and his successor, [Ar-Azal](Lore_Ar-Azal.md), and the greatest Crown Grandee of his time.

#### Mymophonus the scribe (fl. late 3E)
[Mymophonus](Lore_Mymophonus.md) was a scribe from the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), roughly three hundred years after Empress [Katariah](Lore_Katariah.md)'s reign. He was a lore writer, however, his work is criticized for not being entirely reliable to the source material. He often took real characters and situations, and distorted them in a way that they lost all meaning. Sometimes he credits himself as **Mymophonus the scribe**.

#### Queen Mynisera ([3E 353](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_353) - ?d)
[Queen Mynisera](Lore_Mynisera.md) of [Daggerfall](Lore_Daggerfall_(kingdom).md) (later **Dowager Queen** and **Queen Mother**) was the wife of King [Lysandus](Lore_Lysandus.md) and mother of his successor, King [Gothryd](Lore_Gothryd.md). She was born in [3E 353](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_353), the daughter of Prince Klaius of an unknown region. It was rumored that as Queen (and possibly afterward), Mynisera was engaged in an affair with Lord [Bridwell](Lore_Bridwell.md), leader of Daggerfall's [Knights of the Dragon](Lore_Knights_of_the_Dragon.md).

Mynisera was on familiar terms with Emperor [Uriel Septim VII](Lore_Uriel_Septim_VII.md), with whom she corresponded. Due to the unrest caused by the [War of Betony](Lore_War_of_Betony.md) in [3E 402](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_402) and Lysandus' death in the war a year later, a sensitive letter from Uriel was inadvertently delivered to Mynisera's successor, Queen [Aubk-i](Lore_Aubk-i.md). Before it could be recovered, the letter was stolen by the [Thieves Guild](Lore_Thieves_Guild.md) and sold to the [Orc](Lore_Orc.md) Warlord of [Orsinium](Lore_Orsinium.md), [Gortwog gro-Nagorm](Lore_Gortwog_gro-Nagorm.md). The theft of this letter touched off a series of events which culminated in the [Warp in the West](Lore_Warp_in_the_West.md) in [3E 417](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_417).

## References
1. [^](#cite_ref-TSC_1-0) [*The Stormfist Clan*](Lore_The_Stormfist_Clan.md) — [Thora Far-Wanderer](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Thora_Far-Wanderer)
2. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-ATUQ_2-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-ATUQ_2-1)***</sup> [*Ayrenn – The Unforeseen Queen*](Lore_Ayrenn_%E2%80%93_The_Unforeseen_Queen.md) — [Headmaster Tanion](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Headmaster_Tanion) of the College of Aldmeri Propriety
3. [^](#cite_ref-TCOF_3-0) [*The Crown of Freydis*](Lore_The_Crown_of_Freydis.md) — [Taleon Mythmaker](Lore_Taleon_Mythmaker.md)
4. [^](#cite_ref-TBW_4-0) [*The Brothers' War*](Lore_The_Brothers%27_War.md)
5. [^](#cite_ref-JTSK_5-0) [*Jorunn the Skald-King*](Lore_Jorunn_the_Skald-King_(book).md) — [Helgreir Lute-Voice](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Helgreir_Lute-Voice), Bard of Windhelm
6. [^](#cite_ref-PGE3S_6-0) [*Pocket Guide to the Empire, 3rd Edition: The Throat of the World: Skyrim*](Lore_Pocket_Guide_to_the_Empire,_3rd_Edition_Skyrim.md) — [Imperial Geographical Society](Lore_Imperial_Geographical_Society.md), [3E 432](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_432)
7. [^](#cite_ref-AJ_7-0) [*Ancotar's Journal*](Lore_Ancotar%27s_Journal.md) — [Ancotar](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Ancotar)
8. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-TWQ2_8-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-TWQ2_8-1)***</sup> [*The Wolf Queen, v2*](Lore_The_Wolf_Queen,_v2.md) — [Waughin Jarth](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Waughin_Jarth)
9. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-BOTWQ_9-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-BOTWQ_9-1)***</sup> [*Biography of the Wolf Queen*](Lore_Biography_of_the_Wolf_Queen.md) — [Katar Eriphanes](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Katar_Eriphanes)
10. [^](#cite_ref-KMO_10-0) [*King Maxevian's Orders*](Lore_King_Maxevian%27s_Orders.md) — [King Maxevian](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#King_Maxevian)
11. [^](#cite_ref-LKM_11-0) [*Letter to King Maxevian*](Lore_Letter_to_King_Maxevian.md) — [Captain Orrent Retene](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Captain_Orrent_Retene)
12. [^](#cite_ref-LOTS_12-0) [*Lives of the Saints*](Lore_Lives_of_the_Saints.md) — [Tribunal Temple](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Tribunal_Temple)
13. [^](#cite_ref-Morrowind_13-0) Events of *[Morrowind](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Morrowind:Morrowind)*
14. [^](#cite_ref-GTA_14-0) [*Guide to Anvil*](Lore_Guide_to_Anvil.md) — [Alessia Ottus](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Alessia_Ottus)
15. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-Oblivion_15-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-Oblivion_15-1)***</sup> Events of *[Oblivion](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Oblivion)*
16. [^](#cite_ref-16) [King Casik](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Arena:King_Casik)'s dialogue in *[Arena](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Arena:Arena)*
17. [^](#cite_ref-NWOB_17-0) [*The War of Betony*](Lore_The_War_of_Betony_(Newgate).md) — [Vulper Newgate](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Vulper_Newgate), [3E 404](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_404)
18. [^](#cite_ref-OBThurindil_18-0) [Thurindil](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Thurindil)'s dialogue in *[Oblivion](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Oblivion)*
19. [^](#cite_ref-BHOTE2_19-0) [*Brief History of the Empire v 2*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Brief_History_of_the_Empire_v_2) — [Stronach k'Thojj III](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Stronach_k.27Thojj_III)
20. [^](#cite_ref-TWQ1_20-0) [*The Wolf Queen, v1*](Lore_The_Wolf_Queen,_v1.md) — [Waughin Jarth](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Waughin_Jarth)
21. [^](#cite_ref-Oblivion MZ_21-0) Events of [Oblivion](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Unearthing_Mehrunes_Razor)