# Spirits of Amun-dro

| Book Compilation | |
| --- | --- |
| Writer | [Andrew Young](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/General:Andrew_Young) |
| Seen In: | - [Elder Scrolls Online](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Spirits_of_Amun-dro) ([Dragonhold](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Dragonhold)) |
| Note | |
| This is a compilation of books assembled for easier reading. | |

Spirits of Amun-dro **by [Amun-dro](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Amun-dro.2C_the_Silent_Priest), the Silent Priest** *Pre-ri'Datta texts which lists various spirits of the Khajiiti Pantheon*
---
This article is about Amun-dro's catalog of spirits. For the treatise written about it, see [Epistle on the Spirits of Amun-dro](Lore_Epistle_on_the_Spirits_of_Amun-dro.md).

---

## *[The Sky Spirits](Lore_The_Sky_Spirits.md)*
[Azurah](Lore_Azurah.md). The Mother of All [Khajiit](Lore_Khajiit.md). Queen of the Night Sky, the Realms of Twilight, and the Dusk and Dawn. The Favored Daughter of [Fadomai](Lore_Fadomai.md). Her spheres are many, for she carries the burdens of our ancestors. All tribes know Azurah as the God of Magic, Beauty, and Prophecy. She is also the keeper of all gates and keys, all rims and thresholds. Khajiit know it was Azurah that lifted us up and bound us to the [Lunar Lattice](Lore_Lunar_Lattice.md), and thus broke us from the chains of fate so that we alone shape our own future. Hers is the gift of [ja-Kha'jay](Lore_Ja-Kha%27jay.md) and all our [perfect forms](Lore_Furstock.md). It is written that she knows the names of all the Khajiit that will ever live. You must come to know her yourself, for that is the first step on the Path.

[Khenarthi](Lore_Khenarthi.md). Elder Spirit of the Heavens, who sings her songs with the wind and rain when she passes close to [Nirni](Lore_Nirni.md). The most ancient sounds were gifted to the world by this spirit, and we honor her with [music](Lore_Music.md), song, and the speaking of myths. For some tribes she also serves as a spirit of mourning, as it is written that when [Lorkhaj](Lore_Lorkhaj.md) died she hid herself in a storm and wept until [Alkosh](Lore_Alkosh.md) came to comfort her. Khenarthi carries the souls of dead Khajiit to Azurah for judgment, and is also her messenger. At the end of time, it is her clarion call that will summon the eternal united spirit of all Khajiit to defend creation.

[Jone](Lore_Jone.md) and [Jode](Lore_Jode.md). The Ever-Mourned. The spirits of the stillborn twins of Fadomai, who still dance in the Lunar Lattice. Khenarthi held them when they were born, and did not have the heart to tell her dying mother the truth. She lit two lanterns to make their eyes bright and rocked them in the sky until her mother passed. Azurah cares for them now and lights the lanterns again when they burn low. The love of Jone and Jode spreads to all Khajiit as moonlight and [sugar](Lore_Moon_Sugar.md). To give your praise to these spirits, you must sing Khenarthi's lullaby on nights of Bright Moons.

[Lorkhaj](Lore_Lorkhaj.md). The Moon Prince. Fadomai's Favored Son. The White Lion. He was born in the [Great Darkness](Lore_Great_Darkness.md) and it followed him as his burden. Loved by many, he was considered a noble leader. Lorkhaj was the first spirit to make his own path with purpose, because he was in conflict with himself as soon as he was born. His courage inspired all those he encountered, so much that he united the spirits to make the [World](Lore_Nirn.md). He gave his life to do this. We honor his sacrifice by walking the Path with purpose and resisting the call of the Dark. Lorkhaj represents the duality of the Khajiiti soul and the hardships that all Khajiit must overcome. In her wisdom, Azurah lit her brother's pyre with the Twin Lanterns of Jone and Jode, and thus the [true spirit of Lorkhaj](Lore_Dark_Moon.md) will sometimes appear—but only when called by Azurah or Khenarthi, or by his oldest name.

[Magrus](Lore_Magrus.md). The [Sun](Lore_Sun.md) God. Commonly known as the Cat's Eye or the Third Eye of Azurah, He serves as a daily reminder of her wrath. It is written that when Magrus fled from [Boethra](Lore_Boethra.md) and Lorkhaj, he could only see out of one eye and fell into the [Moonshadow](Lore_Moonshadow.md). There Azurah judged him as too full of fear to rule a sphere, and she tore out his other eye. Magrus left to the [heavens](Lore_Aetherius.md) blinded, but Azurah made of his eye a stone to reflect the [Varliance Gate](Lore_Varliance_Gate.md). This is the [Aether Prism](Lore_Sun.md), which opens at Dawn and closes at Dusk. Some sorcerers hold that Magrus left the eye willingly as an offering to Azurah and her children, and these magi still utter prayers to his name.

## *[The Dark Spirits](Lore_The_Dark_Spirits.md)*
[Lorkhaj](Lore_Lorkhaj.md). The Moon Beast. Born of the [dark heart](Lore_Dark_Heart.md) of Lorkhaj, which overcame him after he suffered a [great betrayal](Lore_Dawn_Era.md#Convention). In his wisdom, Lorkhaj sought his sister [Azurah](Lore_Azurah.md), who tore the darkness from him before it consumed him and cast it into the Void. We know this shade of Lorkhaj as the first of the [Dro-m'Athra](Lore_Dro-m%27Athra.md), who serve the [Ur-Dra](Lore_Ur-dra.md) [Namiira](Lore_Namiira.md), our enemy. The Moon Beast prowls the edges of the [Lattice](Lore_Lunar_Lattice.md) and pounces on [Khajiit](Lore_Khajiit.md) who stray too far off the Path. Know that on nights of the [Ghost Moon](Lore_Ghost_Moon.md), Azurah has opened the Void Gate and the Moon Beast will challenge mortals until banished. We accept this burden as part of the Path, and for the sake of our Lost Kin.

[Namiira](Lore_Namiira.md). The Eldest Spirit. The [Great Darkness](Lore_Great_Darkness.md). The Void. All creatures who feed on rotten flesh are her spies and the prey of Cats. The Lunar Lattice protects us from her hunger, but not our own. Know that to name her aloud is to invite the Dark, so you must never do so, as Namiira is the sound of her true name. She is a spirit of infinite realms, of which only Azurah knows all. Mortals who become ensnared by this spirit are tortured until they forget who they were and know only Namiira. This is eternal suffering for all souls but the [ja-Kha'jay](Lore_Ja-Kha%27jay.md), whom Azurah will not abandon to the Dark.

[Noctra](Lore_Noctra.md). The Shadow Thief. Daughter of Twilight. Born from the [black](Lore_Dark_Heart.md) [blood](Lore_Ebony.md) of Lorkhaj at the steps of the Void Gate. In the songs, [Boethra](Lore_Boethra.md) battled this spirit until it knew it was not Namiira. When this was done, Noctra was brought before Azurah to be judged. Azurah showed mercy and allowed Noctra to live, so long as she served Azurah and the ja-Kha'jay. But Noctra is rebellious by nature, so she stole [one](Lore_Skeleton_Key.md) of Azurah's keys and fled back into the Void. It is written that Azurah sent the [true spirit of Lorkhaj](Lore_Dark_Moon.md) to find her, and ever since Noctra has aided the Khajiit when called. Tribes may whisper to Noctra for silence, shade, and luck. Do not summon her to perform vile deeds, for this will bring the Dark with her.

[Varmiina](Lore_Vaermina.md). Queen of Nightmares. The Lost Daughter. This spirit was not of any litter, but was born from [Fadomai](Lore_Fadomai.md)'s fear of losing her children. Azurah killed this dark spirit in the Underworld, and now Varmiina only haunts Khajiit when they dream. Know she will test you and make you want to turn from the Path in fear, but she cannot truly harm the ja-Kha'jay in dreams.

[?????] A spirit of vengeance. It has no will of its own, as it was born from Azurah's grief after the death of Fadomai and Lorkhaj. None can summon this spirit save Azurah, Boethra, and [Mafala](Lore_Mafala.md), for only they know its true name. It sometimes appears in songs as a [black panther](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Black_Panther), a [warrior in ebony armor](Lore_Ebonarm.md), or as a hidden sword.

## *[The Worldly Spirits](Lore_The_Worldly_Spirits.md)*
[Nirni](Lore_Nirni.md). The Green Mother. Spirit of Harmony. Though her spirit has diminished, Nirni can still be felt in the warm sands, dense jungles, and all places where mortals have not disturbed the earth. The [Khajiit](Lore_Khajiit.md) are her secret defenders, for her spirit seeds life on the [Mortal Plane](Lore_Mundus.md). This was [Lorkhaj](Lore_Lorkhaj.md)'s gift to Nirni. Because she always tried to compete with [Azurah](Lore_Azurah.md) for [Fadomai](Lore_Fadomai.md)'s favor, she is sometimes called the Jealous Sister. Despite this, it is said she was the only spirit more beautiful than Azurah.

[Y'ffer](Lore_Y%27ffre.md). The Elden Shaper. One of the Bastard Sons of [Ahnurr](Lore_Ahnurr.md). Unlike his father, he was wise and kind. He convinced Nirni to be his mate by creating the first flower, and they had many children. Y'ffer was corrupted by the [Great Darkness](Lore_Great_Darkness.md) sometime after the death of Lorkhaj. Consumed by chaos, Y'ffer struck Nirni, killing her. Azurah, [Khenarthi](Lore_Khenarthi.md), and [Hircine](Lore_Hircine.md) destroyed him in vengeance and made a [cairn for Nirni out of his bones](Lore_Earthbones.md). Some [woodland folk](Lore_Bosmer.md) say they can still hear his voice, but we Khajiit no longer speak of him.

[Hircine](Lore_Hircine.md). The Hunter. Spirit of Pursuit and Purposeful Change. Hircine was in love with Nirni, but she chose Y'ffer as her mate. In his sorrow, Hircine slew Y'ffer's champion, the [Graht-Elk](Lore_Graht-Elk.md). Now he wears its head as a trophy. He is fond of Nirni's children and walks among them often. Khajiit should pray to Hircine when they have strayed from the Path, for the Father of the Hunt will always set them back upon it. Some tribes claim Hircine is the father of Nirni's first litter, who were as changeable as the Moons. They say these children were chosen as vessels for the [ja-Kha'jay](Lore_Ja-Kha%27jay.md).

[Hermorah](Lore_Hermorah.md). The Watcher. Spirit of the Tides. Hermorah records all the events he perceives and stores them away in a [great library](Lore_Apocrypha.md) under the sea. A patient spirit, he helped Azurah maintain the Moons and their Motions after the world was made and Khenarthi could no longer bear to do so. He is the Keeper of the Knowledge of Others, and he shares all he learns with Azurah, who walks the halls of his library often. You should not call on this spirit unless you wish to be tested along the Path. It is best to leave Hermorah to his duty.

[Sangiin](Lore_Sangiin.md). Blood God of the Second Litter. Sangiin is not an evil spirit by nature, but Khajiit must know that all things within his sphere turn True Cats from the Path. These are the urges of blood and pleasure without purpose. To fall to Sangiin is not to give in to the Dark, but to give in to the flesh. He tries to tempt Khajiit into making their flesh [immortal](Lore_Vampire.md), and this is a prison to all spirits of the ja-Kha'jay. Sangiin is therefore a spirit that will test you on the Path and must be overcome. The secret to defeating him is to ignore him, and this we learned from [Mafala](Lore_Mafala.md), who said: Lust for nothing but Truth.

## *[The Wandering Spirits](Lore_The_Wandering_Spirits.md)*
[Akha](Lore_Akha.md). The First Cat, whom we know as the Pathfinder and the One Unmourned. In the earliest days, when [Ahnurr](Lore_Ahnurr.md) and [Fadomai](Lore_Fadomai.md) were still in love, he explored the [heavens](Lore_Aetherius.md) and his trails became the Many Paths. He was Ahnurr's Favored Son, and his father told him to find love like Ahnurr found with Fadomai. Akha mated with the [Winged Serpent of the](Lore_Winged_Serpent_of_the_East.md) [East](Lore_Akavir.md), the [Dune Queen of the](Lore_Dune_Queen_of_the_West.md) [West](Lore_Yokuda.md), and the [Mother Mammoth of the](Lore_Mother_Mammoth_of_the_North.md) [North](Lore_Atmora.md). He then went to the [South](Lore_Aldmeris.md) and never returned. Instead, Alkosh appeared speaking warnings of the things Akha had made along the Many Paths. Since then, Alkosh and his faithful watch over the many children of Akha, for they are both terrible and kind.

[Alkosh](Lore_Alkosh.md). The [Dragon](Lore_Dragon.md) King. The Highmane. He was granted rule over the myriad kingdoms of Akha along the Many Paths. In time, the children of Akha overthrew him and scattered his body on the West Wind. It is said that when [Khenarthi](Lore_Khenarthi.md) learned this, she flew across the Many Paths and put Alkosh back together. In doing so, she saw all the things Akha had wrought, including those that should not be. Now, Alkosh and Khenarthi safeguard the Many Paths from the wayward children of Akha. Pray to Alkosh not for his strength or his mighty roar, but for his sense of duty and purpose.

[Alkhan](Lore_Alduin.md). The Scaled Prince. Firstborn of Akha, who bred with a [demon of fire and shadow](Lore_Demon_of_Fire_and_Shadow.md). He can devour the [souls](Lore_Souls.md) of those he kills to grow to an immense size. The songs tell us Alkhan was slain by [Lorkhaj](Lore_Lorkhaj.md) and his companions, but as an immortal Son of Akha he will return from the Many Paths in time. He is the enemy of Alkosh, Khenarthi, and Lorkhaj, and ever hungers for his crown.

[Boethra](Lore_Boethra.md). The Warrior of the East and West. She is the mate of [Mafala](Lore_Mafala.md), who did not forget her love for Boethra after Ahnurr sent her into exile for her rebellious nature. Boethra walked the Many Paths in exile, and she returned. It was she who pried the eye from [Magrus](Lore_Magrus.md), and this is why [Khajiit](Lore_Khajiit.md) value swords as well as claws. There is no need for a True Cat to pray to Boethra, as you honor this spirit merely by walking the Path, and only hiding in order to pounce. It is forbidden to say her name on nights of the [Ghost Moon](Lore_Ghost_Moon.md), as during these phases Boethra dons the [death](Lore_Ebony.md) - [shroud](Lore_Ebony_Mail.md) of Lorkhaj and wages war beyond the [Lattice](Lore_Lunar_Lattice.md).

[Mafala](Lore_Mafala.md). The Teaching Mother. Elder Spirit and the Keeper of the Ancient Secrets of Fadomai. These were the secrets her children only needed in the beginning, and it was Mafala that carried them down. She watches over Eight of the Many Paths, each of which a Khajiit must walk in time. Mafala aids the Clan Mothers in guiding the Khajiiti people along the Path and protecting our secrets from Others. She is an ally of [Azurah](Lore_Azurah.md), Boethra, and Lorkhaj. Her numbers are Eight and Sixteen, and these are two of her keys.

## *[The Adversarial Spirits](Lore_The_Adversarial_Spirits.md)*
[Sheggorath](Lore_Sheggorath.md). The Mind God. His sphere is the Mortal Mind and its stability. He tests [Khajiit](Lore_Khajiit.md) on the Path by making them doubt the truth of their own thoughts, beliefs, and actions. He must be faced along the Path and overcome before a Khajiit can visit [Hermorah](Lore_Hermorah.md)'s [library](Lore_Apocrypha.md). Some tribes believe Sheggorath is dead and has been replaced by something Other.

[Orkha](Lore_Orkha.md). A demon that followed [Boethra](Lore_Boethra.md) back through the Many Paths. It spoke in curses of affliction and knew no other words. [Lorkhaj](Lore_Lorkhaj.md), [Khenarthi](Lore_Khenarthi.md), and Boethra battled the demon in the ancient songs, but Orkha could only be banished and would not die. Khajiit understand that Orkha and others of his ilk serve as tests along the Path, and nothing more.

[Dagon](Lore_Merrunz.md). The Demon Cat. Also called Merrunz. Born of [Fadomai](Lore_Fadomai.md)'s Second Litter, he quickly turned destructive and wild. [Ahnurr](Lore_Ahnurr.md) exiled him, but he chose to explore the [Great Darkness](Lore_Great_Darkness.md) rather than the Many Paths. There he fell to the demon [Molagh](Lore_Molagh.md), who tortured him until the creation of the [World](Lore_Nirn.md). During the chaos, it is written that the wife of Molagh freed Merrunz and used his destructive nature as a [weapon](Lore_Weapons.md) against the [Lattice](Lore_Lunar_Lattice.md). Merrunz reveled in this and became a kinslayer, and was henceforth the demon we call Dagon. You will face him on the Path.

[Molagh](Lore_Molag_Bal.md). One of the twelve Demon Kings. Elder Spirit of Domination and Supreme Law. This demon was the first to assault the Lattice with intent, alongside Dagon and [Merid-Nunda](Lore_Merid-Nunda.md). Boethra and Molagh fought to a standstill before the Lattice, but it was [Azurah](Lore_Azurah.md) who shackled the Demon King with secrets only she knows. He will test you, and you will overcome him with the might of Boethra, the Will Against Rule.

[Merid-Nunda](Lore_Merid-Nunda.md). False Spirit of Greed. The Orphaned Glimmer. She is the daughter of [Magrus](Lore_Magrus.md), who loved only himself and his own creations. Magrus did not take a mate, but instead [forged children](Lore_Magna_Ge.md) of the [aether](Lore_Aetherius.md). Merid-Nunda is a cold spirit, born of light without love. She is intellect without wisdom, knowledge without purpose. She is the consort of demons, and some songs blame her for orchestrating the death of mighty Lorkhaj. When Merid-Nunda dared assault the Lattice, Azurah struck her down before the [Varliance Gate](Lore_Varliance_Gate.md) and dragged her away from it. She then cast Merid-Nunda into the [Void](Lore_Oblivion.md) and bound her there with mirrors. The nomads say she has since escaped.