# Gods L

[Overview](Lore_Gods.md) | [A](Lore_Gods_A.md) [B](Lore_Gods_B.md) [C](Lore_Gods_C.md) [D](Lore_Gods_D.md) [E](Lore_Gods_E.md) [F](Lore_Gods_F.md) [G](Lore_Gods_G.md) [H](Lore_Gods_H.md) [I](Lore_Gods_I.md) [J](Lore_Gods_J.md) [K](Lore_Gods_K.md) L [M](Lore_Gods_M.md) [N](Lore_Gods_N.md) [O](Lore_Gods_O.md) [P](Lore_Gods_P.md) [Q](Lore_Gods_Q.md) [R](Lore_Gods_R.md) [S](Lore_Gods_S.md) [T](Lore_Gods_T.md) [U](Lore_Gods_U.md) [V](Lore_Gods_V.md) [W](Lore_Gods_W.md) [X](Lore_Gods_X.md) [Y](Lore_Gods_Y.md) [Z](Lore_Gods_Z.md)
---

#### Lamae Bal, the Blood Matron
[Lamae Beolfag](Lore_Lamae_Bal.md) (better known as **Lamae Bal** or the **Blood Matron**) was a [Nedic](Lore_Nede.md) priestess of [Arkay](Lore_Arkay.md), who was made the unwilling bride of [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md), and transformed into the first [vampire](Lore_Vampire.md) sometime between the middle and late [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md).<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_nb_1)</sup> She is the progenitor of a strain of vampirism caused by [Noxiphilic Sanguivoria](Lore_Disease.md#Noxiphilic_Sanguivoria). Over time, she discovered that as others fed from her and spread her curse, instead of becoming weaker she became stronger, her power multiplying as the number of her "children" grew. She is an enemy of both Molag Bal and Arkay.

Through blood and sorcery, Lamae altered her bloodline to create [Blood Scions](Lore_Blood_Scion.md), vampires whose strength almost rivals that of the vampire lords that were turned directly by Molag Bal. She embraces her condition, seeking to use it against her hated adversaries. She openly encourages vampires to feed freely upon the blood of mortals, and her alterations to the bloodline allow her children to become stronger by consuming blood.

#### Leki, Saint of the Spirit Sword
[Leki](Lore_Leki.md), also known as the **Saint of the Spirit Sword** is the goddess of aberrant swordsmanship and divine daughter of [Tall Papa](Lore_Ruptga.md), who is said to reside in the [Far Shores](Lore_Far_Shores.md). She is said to be one of the most popular gods in [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md).

The Na-Totambu of [Yokuda](Lore_Yokuda.md) warred to a standstill during the mythic era to decide who would lead the charge against the [Lefthanded Elves](Lore_Lefthanded_Elves.md). Their swordmasters, though, were so skilled in the Best Known Cuts as to be matched evenly. Leki introduced the Ephemeral Feint (a [Sword-Singing](Lore_Sword-singers.md) technique, acording to some stories); afterwards, a victor emerged, and the war with the Elves began.

According to legend, one of Leki's miracles resulted in the founding of a settlement in the [Alik'r](Lore_Alik%27r.md). [Leki's Blade](Lore_Leki%27s_Blade.md) was established after she dueled with [Rada al-Saran](Lore_Rada_al-Saran.md), a great warrior who claimed to match the gods in the way of the sword. [Sai Sahan](Lore_Sai_Sahan.md) came from a long line of Redguard swordmaster nobles, and was "something more than mortal man", descending from Leki the Yokudan Sword-Saint.

#### Londa-Vera, the Green Star
[Londa-Vera](Lore_Londa-Vera.md), **the Green Star** is one of the lesser-known [Magna Ge](Lore_Magna_Ge.md), one of the Star-Orphans and an [Anuic](Lore_Anu.md) ur-entity. She was one of [Magnus](Lore_Magnus.md)'s daughters and the sister of [Merid-Nunda](Lore_Merid-Nunda.md), [Mnemo-Li](Lore_Mnemo-Li.md), [Iana-Lor](Lore_Iana-Lor.md), [Xero-Lyg](Lore_Xero-Lyg.md), the eldest [Prime Archon](Lore_Ithelia.md), [Sheza-Rana](Lore_Sheza-Rana.md), [Unala-Se](Lore_Unala-Se.md), and [Valia-Sha](Lore_Valia-Sha.md). Alongside her sisters, she was part of the Nine Coruscations, who followed the parabolas that led away from Magnus and separated from him when he withdrew from the creation of the [Aurbis](Lore_Aurbis.md). Similarly to other Magna Ge she is now synonymous with the [star](Lore_Stars.md), which she created.

In the text authored by Star-Queen Varalias, she is associated with the [element of earth](Lore_Elements.md#Earth), and the "Starry Heart". When Magnus devised his plans, he aimed to create what he could aptly name a perfect being, born of Light within Love. He drew inspiration from the beauty of [Nir](Lore_Nir.md), the gaze of [Azura](Lore_Azura.md), the warmth of [Mara](Lore_Mara.md)'s smile, the grace of [Dibella](Lore_Dibella.md)'s form, the freedom of [Kynareth](Lore_Kynareth.md)'s wings, the resolve of [Boethiah](Lore_Boethiah.md)'s will, the enigma of [Vaermina](Lore_Vaermina.md)'s mystery, the insight of [Mephala](Lore_Mephala.md)'s wisdom, and the resolve of [Namira](Lore_Namira.md)'s determination. From the fateful forge emerged Londa-Vera, her cry echoing through endless ages. Her birth was so unique that she never fully coalesced; instead, the facets of her essence scattered across the Aurbis and fractured. She exists everywhere and nowhere, embodying the feminine magic that enabled the Mundus to exist despite its inherent impossibility.

#### Lorkh, Sower of Flesh
[Lorkh](Lore_Lorkh.md), who is known as the **Spirit of Man**, the **Mortal Spirit**, the **Sower of Flesh**, and the **Lord of Mortals**, is the [Reachman](Lore_Reachmen.md) interpretation of **[Lorkhan](Lore_Lorkhan.md)**, the Creator-Trickster-Tester deity present in some form in every [Tamrielic](Lore_Tamriel.md) mythic tradition.

Lorkh is a revered spirit in the Reachman pantheon. Their creation story speaks of Lorkh having an epiphany when he visited the darkness; that which is perceived as nothingness is ripe for possibility. And so, Lorkh approached [Namira](Lore_Namira.md), who ruled the world of spirit, and convinced her to grant him a place in the infinite void to create a realm for wayward spirits, but it was at a cost. To make this a possibility, Lorkh sacrificed himself to create a harsh realm, one that is unforgiving and intended to teach through suffering. Despite his [sundering](Lore_Dawn_Era.md#Convention), Lorkh still believed in the light of [Man](Lore_Men.md), whose ancestors fled into the mountains, away from the darkness emitted from his heart.

#### Lorkhaj, the Moon Beast
[Lorkhaj](Lore_Lorkhaj.md) (also known as *the Missing God*, *the Moon Beast*, *Moon Prince*, *Fadomai's Favored Son*, *the First Trickster*, *the White Lion*, *Dark Moon*, *Ghost Moon*, *Lost Runt*) is the [Khajiit](Lore_Khajiit.md) interpretation of **[Lorkhan](Lore_Lorkhan.md)**, the Creator-Trickster-Tester deity present in some form in every [Tamrielic](Lore_Tamriel.md) mythic tradition. Khajiit believe that the third moon, the [Dark Moon](Lore_Dark_Moon.md), is the corpse of Lorkhaj, now freed of darkness.

#### Lorkhan, The Missing God
[Lorkhan](Lore_Lorkhan.md), the **Missing God**, is the **Creator-Trickster-Tester** deity present in every [Tamrielic](Lore_Tamriel.md) mythic tradition. He is known as the **Spirit of Nirn**, the god of all mortals. His most popular name is the [elven](Lore_Aldmer.md) variant Lorkhan, or **Doom Drum**, which sometimes appears as **LKHAN** or **LHKAN**. Names for versions or aspects of Lorkhan include **[Lorkhaj](Lore_Lorkhaj.md)** (the Moon Beast) in [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md), and **[Lorkh](Lore_Lorkh.md)**, the **Spirit of Man**, the **Mortal Spirit**, or the **Sower of Flesh** among the [Reachmen](Lore_Reachmen.md). He is recognized as **[Sep](Lore_Sep.md)** in [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), **[Sheor](Lore_Sheor.md)** in [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md), **[Shor](Lore_Shor.md)** in [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), and **[Shezarr](Lore_Shezarr.md)** in [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). To the [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md), he is also called the **Corpse-God**. He is also known as the **Void Ghost**. He convinced or contrived the Original Spirits ([et'Ada](Lore_Et%27Ada.md)) to bring about the creation of the [Mundus](Lore_Mundus.md), upsetting the status quo—much like his father [Padomay](Lore_Padomay.md) or [Sithis](Lore_Sithis.md) is usually credited for introducing instability, and hence possibility for creation, into the undivided universe (or the [Beginning Place](Lore_Beginning_Place.md)).