# Places O

[Overview](Lore_Places.md) | [A](Lore_Places_A.md) [B](Lore_Places_B.md) [C](Lore_Places_C.md) [D](Lore_Places_D.md) [E](Lore_Places_E.md) [F](Lore_Places_F.md) [G](Lore_Places_G.md) [H](Lore_Places_H.md) [I](Lore_Places_I.md) [J](Lore_Places_J.md) [K](Lore_Places_K.md) [L](Lore_Places_L.md) [M](Lore_Places_M.md) [N](Lore_Places_N.md) O [P](Lore_Places_P.md) [Q](Lore_Places_Q.md) [R](Lore_Places_R.md) [S](Lore_Places_S.md) [T](Lore_Places_T.md) [U](Lore_Places_U.md) [V](Lore_Places_V.md) [W](Lore_Places_W.md) [X](Lore_Places_X.md) [Y](Lore_Places_Y.md) [Z](Lore_Places_Z.md) | [Maps](Lore_Maps.md)
---

## Oaktown
[Oaktown](Lore_Oaktown.md) (also called **Andrethis**) is a settlement near the southwestern border of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md), in the [western mountain](Lore_Valus_Mountains.md) region, where it is an occupied territory of [House Hlaalu](Lore_House_Hlaalu.md).

## Oakwood
[Oakwood](Lore_Oakwood.md) was a town located in southern [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), northeast of [Falkreath](Lore_Falkreath.md) and southwest of [Whiterun](Lore_Whiterun.md). It was found east of [North Keep](Lore_North_Keep.md) and had a road connection to [Neugrad Watch](Lore_Neugrad_Watch.md) in the south.

## Oblivion
[Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md), sometimes known as **Hell**, the **Outer Realms**, the **Netherworld** or the **Nether Planes**, is a realm within the [Aurbis](Lore_Aurbis.md), and is mainly inhabited by the [Daedra](Lore_Daedra.md) — [et'Ada](Lore_Et%27Ada.md) who did not contribute to the creation of the [Mundus](Lore_Mundus.md).

There are at least sixteen major [Planes of Oblivion](Lore_Planes_of_Oblivion.md), each ruled over by one of the [Daedric Princes](Lore_Daedric_Princes.md), and over 37,000 other documented planes, including chaos realms and pocket realities, although there exists far more than that, with accounts from the Daedra describing the minor realms in Oblivion as overall being infinite in both number and complexity. Oblivion realms are extensions of their masters. Most realms are maintained by greater Daedra or the collective will of many lesser Daedra, although some are ruled by mortals who have ascended to immortality—like the [Ideal Masters](Lore_Ideal_Masters.md). The realms of the Daedric Princes are extensions of their Prince and can be very extensive, with some even being described as infinite in size and shape. Indeed, according to [Sotha Sil](Lore_Sotha_Sil.md), were a Prince to simultaneously invade the realms of the other Princes to seize the power within through the use of something like the [Crystal Tower](Lore_Crystal_Tower.md), they'd gain infinite power through the infinite connections made. It has been said that, just like Apocrypha, all proper Oblivion realms are infinite in size.

Oblivion is described as a different universe or a different dimension in relation to Mundus. The [Imperial Geographical Society](Lore_Imperial_Geographical_Society.md) described it as a black and empty sea with countless isles of wonder and cosmic whimsy, which begins where Mundus ends and surrounds it on every side. Thus, simply staring into the night sky is enough to visit Oblivion. The Oblivion scholar Telbaril Oran claimed that what the mortal senses perceive while in an Oblivion realm is crafted from illusion and metaphor, the result of their mind attempting to make sense of the surrounding chaos. Because of this phenomenon, things like the "grass" one might perceive while in an Oblivion realm were described by him as actually just being the memory of that thing as interpreted by the mortal mind.

The mechanisms which allow for [magic](Lore_Magic.md) to function in Oblivion are a matter of debate. One theory, that of "Mundial Emanation", maintains that when the [Magna Ge](Lore_Magna_Ge.md) broke through the firmament of Mundus, they unleashed a wave of creative energy which also washed over Oblivion and infused it with magic. Another theory maintains that Oblivion has its own "manifest dynamism", a form of omnipresent background energy which gives Oblivion its basic shape and laws, and can be tapped into to use magic when in those realms. Whatever the case, Daedra have referred to magicka as a force they tap into to exert their power.

Causality within Oblivion is not always concurrent with Mundus and [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md), thus making it possible for phenomena such as entering an Oblivion realm at one point in time and emerging in the past relative to when one entered to occur. The downside with this tactic is the unpredictability and unreliability of when you might end up. [Fargrave](Lore_Fargrave.md) was one Oblivion realm interaction with which was theorized to possibly lead to consequences in different frames of time.

[Chaotic Creatia](Lore_Chaotic_Creatia.md) is the unformed chaos native to the planes of Oblivion, out of which the realms of Oblivion are formed. It is a shapeless but energetic [Padomaic](Lore_Padomay.md) material that accretes around a Daedric [vestige](Lore_Vestige_(soul).md) until it conforms to the morphotype's inherent pattern. It is therefore key to the process by which a banished Daedra forms a new body. Chaotic creatia takes a different but planar-appropriate form in every realm of Oblivion, and is commonly referred to as the "waters of Oblivion." According to the [Mazken](Lore_Mazken.md) Madam Whim, a renowned information broker operating out of [Fargrave](Lore_Fargrave.md), the original formation of the Vestiges of lesser Daedra is generally the work of a progenitor [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Prince.md), who forms them out of the Creatia of their realm and sets their nature and path at the time of their making. Indeed, there have been cases of lesser Daedra that were created by their progenitor Prince to accomplish a specific purpose or task, such as the scions of [Ithelia](Lore_Ithelia.md), who were created by their Prince to help avert her foreseen imprisonment after a conflict with the other Daedric Princes." New realms formed within Oblivion are said to be crafted by their creators out of Chaotic Creatia. The Daedric Prince [Peryite](Lore_Peryite.md) is in charge of keeping [daedrons](Lore_Chaotic_Creatia.md) - chaotic creatia imbued with sufficient purpose and function from the exertion of Daedric or mortal will - from causing damage in Oblivion. Such will-imbued creatia can form "potentia vortices" which, if unattended, can form destructive "realm-rips", phenomena which Peryite prevents from forming across Oblivion. Some realms such as the [Village of the Lost](Lore_Village_of_the_Lost.md), a border realm of Coldharbour created during the [Planemeld](Lore_Planemeld.md), have been observed floating upon a sea of creatia while they formed.

Each Oblivion plane is different in appearance, depending upon the nature of its ruler. They can range from beautiful to desolate; some are even too strange for mortal comprehension.

## Odai River
The [Odai River](Lore_Odai_River.md), also called **River Odai**, was a river running north to south on the island of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md) in [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). It began in the [West Gash](Lore_West_Gash.md) region just north of [Balmora](Lore_Balmora.md) and flowed placidly through the center of the city to the Odai Plateau. It then passed through the [Ascadian Isles](Lore_Ascadian_Isles.md) region before emptying into the [Inner Sea](Lore_Inner_Sea.md) at the eastern edge of the [Bitter Coast](Lore_Bitter_Coast.md) near the town of [Hla Oad](Lore_Hla_Oad.md). The terrain surrounding much of the river was mountainous and dotted with mines. A rough track along the western shore of the river connected Hla Oad with Balmora. Water from Odai River was considered fine for brewing, as lava runoff gave it a charred taste. It is unknown how the river was affected by the cataclysms of the [Red Year](Lore_Red_Year.md).

## Ogres Tooth Mountains
The [Ogres Tooth Mountains](Lore_Ogres_Tooth_Mountains.md) are a range of mountains on the island of [Stros M'Kai](Lore_Stros_M%27Kai.md) in the kingdom of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md). They are found to the west of [Port Hunding](Lore_Port_Hunding.md) and take up roughly a third of the available land area.

The mountains are notable for the [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md) ruins of [Bthzark](Lore_Bthzark.md). Its mines and other facilities delve into the southern half of the range, while the steam and gas harvesting system that powers the mechanisms inside lie above ground in the northern mountains. Two large bridges cross a pass that cuts the range in two, and the steam pipes cross with them.

## Old Fort
[Old Fort](Lore_Old_Fort.md) was one of the royal bastions constructed by the [First Empire of the Nords](Lore_First_Empire_of_the_Nords.md) to guard their southern frontier. Its tower walls were sourced from irregular prophryry blocks, which fit together without seam or mortar, as if constructed by the mythical [Ehlnofey](Lore_Ehlnofey.md) rather than men... Yet sure enough it was the engineering of the [Nord](Lore_Nord.md) people that built it. The Nord stonesmiths are said to have discovered a method of erecting structures of igneous rock soon after the reign of [Ysgramor](Lore_Ysgramor.md), which proved difficult for marauders to dismantle, as evidenced by Old Fort's long endurance.<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-PG1.2FS-1)</sup><sup>[[2]](#cite_note-EGT-2)</sup>

## Old Hroldan
[Old Hroldan](Lore_Old_Hroldan.md)<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_Hroldan)</sup> (formerly known as **Hroldan**) is a historical landmark in the southern river valley of [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md), in the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). The land has frequently passed hands between the [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md) and the [Nords of Karth](Lore_Nord.md). To the Nords, it is a historical settlement from the early [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md), possibly one of their earliest known footholds in the Reach in a post- [Dragon Cult](Lore_Dragon_Cult.md) era, but to the local Reachfolk, the site was known as **Hroldan Ring**, and it was neutral grounds for the [Reach clans](Lore_Reachman_Clans.md) to trade resources or share stories with one another. The site is known as **Ahroldan** in the [Dragon language](Lore_Dragon_Language.md).

## Old Mournhold
[Old Mournhold](Lore_Old_Mournhold.md) is the underground sub-section of [Mournhold](Lore_Mournhold.md), located in the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). It is the ruins of the modern city that were destroyed at the end of the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md) by [Mehrunes Dagon](Lore_Mehrunes_Dagon.md), before he was banished back to [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md) by [Almalexia](Lore_Almalexia.md) and [Sotha Sil](Lore_Sotha_Sil.md). The present-day **Mournhold Sewers** are built around the city ruins and have existed thousands of years prior. But because of how expansive they are, whole sections are entirely forgotten by city administrators.

## Old Run
[Ald'ruhn](Lore_Ald%27ruhn.md) ([Dark Elvish](Lore_Dark_Elvish.md) for *"Old Home"* and also spelled **Ald-ruhn**) was one of the four cities on the district of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md). In modern history, Ald'ruhn served as the district seat of power for the Great [House Redoran](Lore_House_Redoran.md), but before it was occupied by the House [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md), it was neutral meeting ground for the four tribes of the Vvardenfell [Ashlanders](Lore_Ashlanders.md). The settlement was built around the carcass of [Skar](Lore_Skar.md), an ancient [Emperor Crab](Lore_Emperor_Crab.md) that was slain by the united tribes and a long-forgotten hero of legend. The [Third Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md) maintained the Buckmoth Legion Fort on the south end of the city, and occasionally Imperialized the city's name as **Old Run**.

## Oldgate
[Oldgate](Lore_Oldgate.md) (also spelled as **Old Gate**) is a fortified border gate on the southern border of [Rivenspire](Lore_Rivenspire.md), a northern kingdom in the province of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md). The fort is the gateway into Rivenspire for the rest of the province and it works adjacent to Newgate, another keep on the [Stormhaven](Lore_Stormhaven.md) end of the pass. It is also the home of a militia called the **Oldgate Lancers**, who swore allegiance to the Kingdom of Rivenspire.

## Oleer Mar
[Oleer Mar](Lore_Oleer_Mar.md) is a settlement hosting hunters on the island of [Solstheim](Lore_Solstheim.md), in the vicinity of the [Ensleth Valley](Lore_Ensleth_Valley.md).

## Olenveld
[Olenveld](Lore_Olenveld.md) is a settlement on an island off the coast of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), colloquially referred to as the **island of death**, that is a day's sail in favorable conditions from [Winterhold](Lore_Winterhold_(city).md).

Olenveld was originally a significant city, although it was abandoned sometime in the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). [Tiber Septim](Lore_Tiber_Septim.md) used Olenveld as his own personal graveyard, lining its abandoned streets with gravestones. Eventually the island city was forgotten, and Olenveld disappeared from the maps.

After [Hannibal Traven](Lore_Hannibal_Traven.md) became the Arch-Mage of the [Mages Guild](Lore_Mages_Guild.md) circa [3E 431](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_431), he introduced a ban on [necromancy](Lore_Necromancy.md) in the guild. Forced to go into hiding, a group of necromancers set out to find Olenveld and its plentiful supply of bodies. After spending a week searching for the island, they set up shop in the old Mages Guild building and became somewhat well-known for their ability to preserve sickly children by turning them undead.

Necromancers still inhabited Olenveld centuries into the [Fourth Era](Lore_Fourth_Era.md). In [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201), two necromancers set out from Olenveld in order to open a portal to the [Soul Cairn](Lore_Soul_Cairn.md). They established themselves within [Brittleshin Pass](Lore_Brittleshin_Pass.md) in mainland Skyrim, where they managed to acquire the [Staff of Hasedoki](Lore_Staff_of_Hasedoki.md) via the local smugglers. They planned to release Hasedoki's soul from the staff to earn the favor of the [Ideal Masters](Lore_Ideal_Masters.md), although they were both killed by the [Last Dragonborn](Lore_Last_Dragonborn.md) before this could occur.

## Oliis Bay
[Oliis Bay](Lore_Oliis_Bay.md) is a large body of water found in southeastern [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md), forming the east coast of [Murkmire](Lore_Murkmire.md). It was named by the [Imperials](Lore_Imperial.md) when they laid claim over the province's coastlines. The city of [Lilmoth](Lore_Lilmoth.md) is found at the mouth of the bay, where it connects to the [Southern Sea](Lore_Southern_Sea.md).

## Onkobra River
[Onkobra River](Lore_Onkobra_River.md) (sometimes known as the **Onkabra**) is a fast-moving stream that runs in [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md). It source is found near the [Topal Bay](Lore_Topal_Bay.md). From there it flows eastward, in the region of [Gideon](Lore_Gideon.md) along a muddy and dysfunctional road before entering the dark center of [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md)

There is another portion of the Onkobra in the region of [Shadowfen](Lore_Shadowfen.md), south of the port-town of [Alten Corimont](Lore_Alten_Corimont.md).

The [Dark Elves](Lore_Dunmer.md) had established a [Kwama Mine](Lore_Kwama.md) called the Onkobra Kwama Mine, but when Argonian slaves were able to overwhelm their slavers, they took over the Kwama Mines in Black Marsh, including the Onkobra Mine. This, however, did not end successfully. All the while, armillary spheres showcasing the [Aurbis](Lore_Aurbis.md) etched in Onkobra Kwama Eggs were in circulation in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582). Red clay of the Onkobra delta makes for very distinctive pottery.

## Ontus
[Ontus](Lore_Ontus.md) is a historical settlement located in the [Colovian Highlands](Lore_Colovian_Highlands.md), in the province of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). It was a town of workers on the Highlands Road, located near the border toward [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md). It once boasted a mixed population of local [Colovians](Lore_Colovian.md) and [Redguards](Lore_Redguard.md), and many of its people either worked the land or the mines. To the north, perched on a hill was a tower called the **Ontus Reservior**, which functioned as the town's water source. Years later after the town dissolved, the reservoir remained as the modern [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) ruins known as **Fort Ontus**.

## Orange Road
The [Orange Road](Lore_Orange_Road.md) runs west to east from [Chorrol](Lore_Chorrol.md) to [Bruma](Lore_Bruma.md). At its western end it joins with the [Black Road](Lore_Black_Road.md); at its eastern end it links up with the [Silver Road](Lore_Silver_Road.md).

## Orcrest
[Orcrest](Lore_Orcrest.md) is one of the eight major cities in the province of [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md), situated over the barren wastes of [the Scar](Lore_The_Scar.md). In modern history, Orcrest is known as the center of commerce for the northern kingdom of [Anequina](Lore_Anequina.md), attracting merchants and people from all over the region and beyond. In the province's ancient history as the [sixteen kingdoms](Lore_Sixteen_Kingdoms.md), Orcrest was a kingdom of rogues and thieves.

## Orsinium
[Orsinium](Lore_Orsinium.md) (which literally translates to "[Orc](Lore_Orc.md) -Town" in [Aldmeris](Lore_Aldmer.md), also called the **City of Orcs**) is the city of the Orsimer and the provincial seat of the region of [Wrothgar](Lore_Wrothgar.md), which came to be known as the [Orsinium Area](Lore_Orsinium_Area.md) in the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md). It has been sacked and rebuilt many times over the centuries, as the Orcs are often at odds with their [Breton](Lore_Breton.md) and [Redguard](Lore_Redguard.md) neighbors. Orsinium was first built in [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md), straddling the boundary between western Wrothgar and [Rivenspire](Lore_Rivenspire.md). In the mid- [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), the city was relocated to eastern Wrothgar. In [3E 399](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_399), it was relocated again to a site between [Wayrest](Lore_Wayrest_(kingdom).md), [Menevia](Lore_Menevia_(county).md), and the [Wrothgarian Mountains](Lore_Wrothgarian_Mountains.md). By [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201), Orsinium had been moved a third time, farther south to an area between [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md) and [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). The royal palace of the city is traditionally known as Scarp Keep.

The exact date of the first Orsinium's founding is unknown, but it is known to have grown powerful as early as the ninth century of the First Era.

## Orsinium Area
The [Orsinium Area](Lore_Orsinium_Area.md) was a [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md) political entity situated in the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md) region, inhabited by [Orcs](Lore_Orc.md) and ruled from the city of [Orsinium](Lore_Orsinium.md). It bordered [Menevia](Lore_Menevia_(county).md), [Wayrest](Lore_Wayrest_(kingdom).md), and the [Wrothgarian Mountains](Lore_Wrothgarian_Mountains.md). The [Lyrezi](Lore_Lyrezi.md) clan was the predominant [vampire](Lore_Vampire.md) bloodline in the region.

## Othrenis
[Othrenis](Lore_Othrenis.md) (also known as **Eagle Moor**) is a large burial ground in the eastern hills of [Stonefalls](Lore_Stonefalls.md), in the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). The site is a necropolis where figures like [Mavos Siloreth](Lore_Mavos_Siloreth.md), a powerful First Era mage and the Elendis family of adventurers are buried. It is specifically a special type of necropolis called [cities of the dead](Lore_Death_Dunmer.md#Dunmer_Funerary_Customs), where [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) ancestors and spirits are interred for eternal rest. [Graven Caps](Lore_Graven_Cap.md) are a sweet-smelling mushroom that grows in Othrenis and can be used to communicate with spirits.

## References
1. [^](#cite_ref-PG1.2FS_1-0) [*Pocket Guide to the Empire, 1st Edition: Skyrim*](Lore_Pocket_Guide_to_the_Empire,_1st_Edition_Skyrim.md) — [Imperial Geographical Society](Lore_Imperial_Geographical_Society.md), [2E 864](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_864)
2. [^](#cite_ref-EGT_2-0) [The Improved Emperor's Guide to Tamriel](Lore_The_Improved_Emperor%27s_Guide_to_Tamriel.md)