# Gods A

[Overview](Lore_Gods.md) | A [B](Lore_Gods_B.md) [C](Lore_Gods_C.md) [D](Lore_Gods_D.md) [E](Lore_Gods_E.md) [F](Lore_Gods_F.md) [G](Lore_Gods_G.md) [H](Lore_Gods_H.md) [I](Lore_Gods_I.md) [J](Lore_Gods_J.md) [K](Lore_Gods_K.md) [L](Lore_Gods_L.md) [M](Lore_Gods_M.md) [N](Lore_Gods_N.md) [O](Lore_Gods_O.md) [P](Lore_Gods_P.md) [Q](Lore_Gods_Q.md) [R](Lore_Gods_R.md) [S](Lore_Gods_S.md) [T](Lore_Gods_T.md) [U](Lore_Gods_U.md) [V](Lore_Gods_V.md) [W](Lore_Gods_W.md) [X](Lore_Gods_X.md) [Y](Lore_Gods_Y.md) [Z](Lore_Gods_Z.md)
---

#### The Acharyai
The [Acharyai](Lore_Acharyai.md) is the name of the supposed first spirit or spirits in existence, the distant ancestor or ancestors of the traditionally worshipped [gods](Lore_Gods.md): the [Aedra](Lore_Aedra.md) and [Daedra](Lore_Daedra.md). They are acknowledged by the [Psijic Order](Lore_Psijic_Order.md) and considered fundamental to their complex system of [Ancestor Worship](Lore_Ancestor_Worship.md), known to them as the Old Ways. As the foundation of their faith, the nature and existence of the Acharyai is one of the first things any neophyte of [Artaeum](Lore_Artaeum.md) will learn. [Centaurs](Lore_Centaur.md) practice the same devout system as the Psijics, presumably including the Acharyai.

#### The Adversary, The Greedy Man
The [Skaal](Lore_Skaal.md) believe the Adversary takes delight in tormenting and testing them.<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-ASS-1)</sup> [The All-Maker](Lore_All-Maker.md) and the Adversary bear a resemblance to [Anu](Lore_Anu.md) and [Padomay](Lore_Padomay.md), who are in a similar antithetical conflict.<sup>[[2]](#cite_note-TAA-2)</sup> [The Greedy Man](Lore_The_Greedy_Man.md) is one of the Adversary's aspects.<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-ASS-1)</sup>

#### Agamanus, the Sphinx of Gazia
[Agamanus](Lore_Agamanus.md), the [Sphinx](Lore_Sphinx.md) of [Gazia](Lore_Gazia.md), is an entity venerated in [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md) by the [Temple of Agamanus](Lore_Temple_of_Agamanus.md).<sup>[[3]](#cite_note-TES1Arena-3)</sup>

#### Akatosh, Dragon God of Time
[Akatosh](Lore_Akatosh.md), known as **[Auri-El](Lore_Auri-El.md)** (or **Auriel**) to the [Mer](Lore_Elves.md), **Bormahu** (Our Father) to the [dragons](Lore_Dragon.md), the **great Dragon of Time** to the [Nedes](Lore_Nede.md), **[Alkosh](Lore_Alkosh.md)** to the [Khajiit](Lore_Khajiit.md), is the chief deity of the [Eight](Lore_Gods_E.md#Eight_Divines) or [Nine Divines](Lore_Nine_Divines.md) (the prescribed religious cults of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) and its provinces). He is present in most [Tamrielic](Lore_Tamrielic.md) religions. His avatar is a golden dragon, and he is often called the **Dragon God of Time**,, **Father Akatosh**, and the **Lord of the Dragons**. He is generally considered to be the first of the [gods](Lore_Gods.md) to form in the [Beginning Place](Lore_Beginning_Place.md); some even claim he established it. After his formation, other spirits found the process to be easier and the various pantheons of the world emerged. The [Aedric](Lore_Aedra.md) spirit is the ultimate God of the Cyrodilic [Empire](Lore_Empire.md), where he embodies the qualities of endurance, invincibility, and everlasting legitimacy while promoting the virtues of duty, service, and obedience. Akatosh is thought to be the father of all dragons, and their leader [Alduin](Lore_Alduin.md) was titled "First-Born of Akatosh". Alduin later came to proclaim himself a god, prompting [Paarthurnax](Lore_Paarthurnax.md) to turn on him for forsaking his duty to Akatosh, and resulting in history considering Alduin to be the Nordic aspect of Akatosh. Akatosh is the patron of the [Akatosh Chantry](Lore_Akatosh_Chantry.md), the religious order devoted to the worship and glorification of him, who refer to him as the "Great Dragon". [Dragon Breaks](Lore_Dragon_Break.md), such as the [Warp in the West](Lore_Warp_in_the_West.md) and the [Middle Dawn](Lore_Middle_Dawn.md), are thought to result from Akatosh's temporary loss of control over the flow of time, or his temporary "breaking", hence the name of the phenomenon. Other ancient examples of Dragon Breaks may be found in other cultures, being the result of the Dragon being attacked by spirits and torn apart, like with Alkosh, who Khajiit myth holds was torn apart, before being put back together by [Khenarthi](Lore_Khenarthi.md).

Akatosh was involved in the forging of the Covenant with the new Empire of humanity, and his blood was mystically joined with [Alessia](Lore_Alessia.md) and her heirs. The [Amulet of Kings](Lore_Amulet_of_Kings.md) was the primary token of this patronage, and it allowed the new Empire of Cyrodiil to benefit from the stabilizing influence of White Gold Tower, maintaining the [barrier](Lore_Liminal_Barriers.md) between [Mundus](Lore_Mundus.md) and the [Planes of Oblivion](Lore_Planes_of_Oblivion.md). [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md) and Mundus are thus separated from Oblivion by the Liminal Barriers, which are said to be the creation of Akatosh through the Sublime Brazier, a sacred cauldron described as Akatosh's first light, which stretches to the very heart of Nirn. When that barrier was threatened during the [Oblivion Crisis](Lore_Oblivion_Crisis.md), [Martin Septim](Lore_Martin_Septim.md) was able to summon Akatosh's spirit and transform himself into the avatar of Akatosh, which appeared in the shape of a giant dragon made of fire. This avatar dragon defeated [Mehrunes Dagon](Lore_Mehrunes_Dagon.md), reestablishing the mystical barrier between Tamriel and the Daedric Realms. The avatar [transformed into a statue](Lore_Statues_Aedra.md#Akatosh), now located inside the ruined [Temple of the One](Lore_Temple_of_the_One.md). According to some sources, this event also resulted in Martin Septim [Mantling](Lore_Mantling.md) Akatosh, and thus achieving [Apotheosis](Lore_Apotheosis.md).

The story *[The Four Suitors of Benitah](Lore_The_Four_Suitors_of_Benitah.md)* included an intelligence challenge as one of the traits needed to earn Lady Benitah's love. One suitor attempts to demonstrate his intelligence with a mathematical formula proving that Akatosh, [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md) and [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md) are one. This suitor writes out the mathematical formula proving it is so, but is subsequently defeated by Oin, the protagonist of the story, presenting a mathematical formula that proved the intelligent suitor did not exist, which vaporized the suitor. *[The Nine Coruscations](Lore_The_Nine_Coruscations.md)*, a religious text by [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) worshippers of [Ithelia](Lore_Ithelia.md), describes the Time God's insanity as "all that is and could be", and the layering of linear time upon [endless possibility](Lore_Many_Paths.md) beyond [cosmic interplay](Lore_Aurbis.md) through the affixing of [Ada-Mantia](Lore_Adamantine_Tower.md) by "a stone of nothing-possible" and through the [Convention](Lore_Convention.md). The text also outlines Ithelia's goal of cleaving through that restriction and breaking the shackles of [fate](Lore_Fate.md) to give every being their own desired history, a state known as "Numancia", the eventual realization of which bears some connection to the limitations of linear time imposed by Ada-Mantia and Convention. One Nedic myth claims that the "great Dragon of Time" set the [stars](Lore_Stars.md) in their courses and appointed the [guardian constellations](Lore_Astronomy.md#Constellations) to watch over the world.

A number of religious traditions hold [Mara](Lore_Mara.md) to be the wife or concubine of Akatosh.

#### Akha, the First Cat
[Akha](Lore_Akha.md) is a [Khajiiti](Lore_Khajiit.md) deity mentioned in some [Pre-ri'Datta](Lore_Rid-Thar-ri%27Datta.md) traditions, who was also known as the **First Cat**, the **Pathfinder**, and the **One Unmourned**. Early in his existence, Akha explored the heavens and his trails became the [Many Paths](Lore_Many_Paths.md), forming myriad kingdoms. As he was also the favored son of [Ahnurr](Lore_Ahnurr.md), he followed his father's advice to find love and mated across the corners of the world with beings from distant lands, including the [Winged Serpent of the East](Lore_Winged_Serpent_of_the_East.md), the [Dune Queen of the West](Lore_Dune_Queen_of_the_West.md), and the [Mother Mammoth of the North](Lore_Mother_Mammoth_of_the_North.md), resulting in numerous [wayward children](Lore_Dragon.md). However, he vanished after heading south and was never seen again.

In the place of Akha, [Alkosh](Lore_Alkosh.md) appeared, and warned of the things Akha had made along the Many Paths. Taking over the role and crown of the First Cat, he inherited rulership over the myriad kingdoms of Akha along the Many Paths. Alkosh also ruled the children of Akha, but he was soon [overthrown](Lore_Middle_Dawn.md) and his body scattered on the West Wind. It is said that [Khenarthi](Lore_Khenarthi.md) then flew across the Paths and put Alkosh back together, and now they both guard the Many Paths from the "wayward children of Akha".<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_nb1)</sup>

Among the offspring of Akha, [Alkhan](Lore_Alduin.md) is the most well-known. He is described as the immortal firstborn son of Akha and a [demon of fire and shadow](Lore_Demon_of_Fire_and_Shadow.md), that is eternally hungry to claim his crown.

#### Alduin, Nordic World Eater
[Alduin](Lore_Alduin.md) (also spelled **Ald'uin** or simply **Ald**), known as the **World-Eater**, the **First Dragon**, the **Dragon Who Eats the World**, **Time-Eater**, the **Twilight God**, the **Worm**, the **Dragon King**, and the **Firstborn** is an immensely powerful black [Dragon](Lore_Dragon.md). He is known as a malevolent being who destroys the world periodically, and the [Nords](Lore_Nord.md) believe that his reappearance heralds the end of the current [kalpa](Lore_Kalpa.md) and the beginning of the next. He is the self-proclaimed First-Born of [Akatosh](Lore_Akatosh.md), and supposedly an aspect of him, having also been described as a "fragment of Akatosh's soul". Alduin is said to have begun as "the wisest and most far-seeing" of all Dragons.

His name can be separated into "Al Du In", which means "Destroyer Devour Master" in the [Dragon Language](Lore_Dragon_Language.md).

#### Alessia, Lady of Heaven
[Alessia](Lore_Alessia.md), also known as **Queen Alessia**, **Saint Alessia**, the **Lady of Heaven**, **Queen-ut-Cyrod**, **Queen of Mortals**, **Slave Queen of Cyrodiil**, **Mother of the Empire**, **Queen of Stars**, and **El-Estia**, was the first Empress of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) and the founder of the [Alessian Empire](Lore_Alessian_Empire.md), the first of three Cyrodilic empires. She led the [Alessian Slave Rebellion](Lore_Alessian_Slave_Rebellion.md) against the [Ayleids](Lore_Ayleid.md) in the third century of the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md), freeing the [Nedes](Lore_Nede.md) of [Cyrod](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) from slavery and founding the Alessian Empire. As the first Empress of Cyrodiil, she established a new religion, a fusion of the [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) and [Aldmeri](Lore_Aldmer.md) pantheons known as the [Eight Divines](Lore_Eight_Divines.md). On her deathbed in [1E 266](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_266), she was canonized by [Akatosh](Lore_Akatosh.md) or [Shezarr](Lore_Shezarr.md), and her soul placed in the central stone of the [Amulet of Kings](Lore_Amulet_of_Kings.md), thus forging Akatosh's covenant with men to protect [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) from the forces of [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md) and starting the [Oversoul](Lore_Oversoul.md) of emperors. She has also been stated to have achieved [apotheosis](Lore_Apotheosis.md) in death, and was described as becoming wife to [Shor](Lore_Shor.md) and [Auri-el](Lore_Auri-El.md), in addition to her marriage with Morihaus. Among worshippers of [Pelinal Whitestrake](Lore_Pelinal_Whitestrake.md), Alessia is the [patron saint](Lore_Imperial_Saints.md) of humanity. The Empress is associated with [The Thief Constellation](Lore_The_Thief.md).

Alessia is not her birth name, but rather a corruption of a title, **Al-Esh** ("High Highness"), that was given to her by her followers. Another title bestowed on her was **Paravant** ("The First"). From corruptions of these two titles come countless other names by which she is known to various peoples, including **Perrif**, **Paraval**, **Pevesh**, **Perrethu**, **Paravania**, **Esha**, and **Aleshut**. The [Alessian Order](Lore_Alessian_Order.md) was so-called because she purportedly appeared to the prophet [Marukh](Lore_Marukh.md) in a vision and bestowed her teachings upon him, for which she was known by the Order as the "**Enlightened One**". For more information, see the [full article](Lore_Alessia.md) on Alessia.

#### Alkhan, the Scaled Prince
**Alkhan**, the **Scaled Prince**, is the firstborn of the [Khajiiti](Lore_Khajiit.md) deity [Akha](Lore_Akha.md) and a [demon of fire and shadow](Lore_Demon_of_Fire_and_Shadow.md). It is said that he devours the souls of his victims to grow to an immense size. Alkhan was slain by [Lorkhaj](Lore_Lorkhaj.md) and his companions, but will someday return from the Many Paths. His enemies include [Alkosh](Lore_Alkosh.md), [Khenarthi](Lore_Khenarthi.md), and Lorkhaj.<sup>[[4]](#cite_note-TWS-4)</sup>

#### Alkosh, Dragon King of Cats
[Alkosh](Lore_Alkosh.md) is a pre- [ri'Datta](Lore_Rid-Thar-ri%27Datta.md) Dynasty [Anaquinine](Lore_Anequina.md) deity, also known as the **Dragon King of Cats**, the **First Cat**, the **Highmane**, and the **Great Cat King of Time**. He is depicted as a fearsome dragon, swift and graceful but also powerful and clever, and radiant as the sun, which the Khajiiti say "is just a real big cat". He is the god of Time, and the king of [dragons](Lore_Dragons.md) , a variation on the [Altmeri](Lore_Altmer.md) [Auri-El](Lore_Auri-El.md), and thus an "[Akatosh](Lore_Akatosh.md) -as-culture-hero" for the earliest [Khajiiti](Lore_Khajiit.md). Alkosh's worship was co-opted during the establishment of the [Riddle'Thar](Lore_Riddle%27Thar.md), but the Dragon King remains popular in [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md)'s wastelands.

Alkosh is said to be at once the weaver of the tapestry of time and the incarnation of the tapestry itself, the threads that comprise it unspool from the tip of his tail and, should the thread end, there will be nothing, as all exists within time's domain. The Dragon King of Time, like [Khenarthi](Lore_Khenarthi.md), can see across all the [Many Paths](Lore_Many_Paths.md) of [Fate](Lore_Fate.md).

#### The All-Maker, God of the Skaal
The [All-Maker](Lore_All-Maker.md), also known as the **All-Father**, is a mysterious deity revered as the wellspring of creation. The All-Maker could be a deity from the Atmorans or branched from the animal deities of the Atmorans. Either way they share similarities with each other and derive from the ancient [Nords](Lore_Nord.md), reverence for the All-Maker is now nearly extinct. However, the isolated [Skaal](Lore_Skaal.md) of [Solstheim](Lore_Solstheim.md) preserved the ancient beliefs throughout the ages, and modern scholars have learned of the All-Maker through their eyes. At least some of the Skaal were known to spread the faith of All-Maker outside of Solstheim, attempting to convert their mainland kin.

All life flows from the All-Maker like a great river, and, in time, this river flows back to its source. It is believed that the All-Maker dwells in the world of the spirit. The spirits of dead creatures return to the All-Maker, who shapes new life and returns it to [Mundus](Lore_Mundus.md). Death, then, is simply the beginning of the next stage of this endless journey. However, each life is a gift given in the great wisdom of the All-Maker, thus each one is very precious and sacred. Even the snow is viewed as a blessing for the shelter it can offer and for allowing hunters to track prey. The All-Maker favors those who hone their skills, and disfavors the greedy and lazy. The six [All-Maker Stones](Skyrim_All-Maker_Stones.md) of Solstheim are viewed as representations of the six aspects of nature, the six great gifts of the All-Maker—flora, fauna, the sun, the earth, water, and wind. The stones are believed to be conduits by which the All-Maker's power flows into the world.

#### All-Mother
The [All-Mother](Lore_All-Mother.md) is a deity who has been evoked by [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md) such as the [Crystal Tower](Lore_Crystal_Tower.md) Archmagister [I'ric Harad Egun](Lore_I%27ric_Harad_Egun.md). Anything beyond their mere existence is unknown, although the [Skaal](Lore_Skaal.md) of [Solstheim](Lore_Solstheim.md) worship a deity known as the [All-Father](Lore_All-Maker.md).

#### Almalexia, Mercy of Morrowind
[Almalexia](Lore_Almalexia.md), also known as **Almalexia the Lover**, **Almalexia the Warden**, and **Ayem**, was one of the three God-Kings who constituted the [Tribunal](Lore_Tribunal.md), or Almsivi, where she is representing **Alm**, along with [Vivec](Lore_Vivec_(god).md) and [Sotha Sil](Lore_Sotha_Sil.md). She was very popular among the [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md), who called her "**Healing Mother**", "**Lady of Mercy**", "**Mother Morrowind**", "**Sacred Lady**", and **Mercymother**. They knew her as the source of compassion, sympathy, and forgiveness, the protector of the poor and weak, and the patron of teachers and healers. She resided in the temple city of [Mournhold](Lore_Mournhold.md) within the city of [Almalexia](Lore_Almalexia_(city).md), the capital of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md), and was closely associated with [House Indoril](Lore_House_Indoril.md).

She was also the most personable of the Tribunal and was well known for walking among her people. As a mortal, she was the wife of Lord [Indoril Nerevar](Lore_Nerevar.md), [First Councilor](Lore_First_Council.md) of [Resdayn](Lore_Resdayn.md). As a living god, she became the Consort of Lord Vivec, who associated her with the stars. Her other titles include **Face-Snaked Queen of the Three in One**, **Face-Snaked Fury**, **First Face**, and **Most Blessed Lady Almalexia**.

Originally the counselors to Nerevar, the Tribunal came to power among the Dunmer following her husband's death at the [Battle of Red Mountain](Lore_Battle_of_Red_Mountain.md) circa [1E 700](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_700). Before his death, they swore oaths to Nerevar upon [Azura](Lore_Azura.md) that they would never use the [Tools of Kagrenac](Lore_Kagrenac%27s_Tools.md) on the [Heart of Lorkhan](Lore_Heart_of_Lorkhan.md) in order to steal its divine essence for themselves. A few years later, Almalexia and her fellow Tribunes broke that oath to become living gods. This led to the transformation of the [Chimer](Lore_Chimer.md) into the Dunmer, and the Tribunal became their immortal protectors, leaders, and gods. The truth of how they gained their divinity was covered up; according to the Heirographa, the orthodox public teachings of the [Tribunal Temple](Lore_Tribunal_Temple.md), their divinity was a more spontaneous result of their supernatural virtue, discipline, wisdom, and insight. For more information, see the [lore article](Lore_Almalexia.md).

#### Angels
Angels are mythical entities associated with [divine](Lore_Gods.md) beings.<sup>[[5]](#cite_note-5)</sup><sup>[[6]](#cite_note-6)</sup><sup>[[UOL 1]](#cite_note-RPTrial Of Vehk-7)</sup><sup>[[UOL 2]](#cite_note-8)</sup> They are considered beautiful creatures,<sup>[[UOL 3]](#cite_note-9)</sup> and are described as elegant and benevolent.<sup>[[7]](#cite_note-10)</sup> [Meridia](Lore_Meridia.md) is sometimes referred to as the Rainbow Angel, or called a "fallen angel".<sup>[[8]](#cite_note-11)</sup> The face of [Umaril the Unfeathered](Lore_Umaril_the_Unfeathered.md)'s helmet was said to have been that of an angel.<sup>[[9]](#cite_note-12)</sup> [Vivec](Lore_Vivec.md) was once described as "the bright and terrible angel of [Veloth](Lore_Veloth.md)".<sup>[[10]](#cite_note-13)</sup>

Angel is often used as a term of endearment.<sup>[[11]](#cite_note-14)</sup><sup>[[UOL 4]](#cite_note-15)</sup> They are the namesake of [Angelfish](Lore_Angelfish.md).

#### Anu
[Anu](Lore_Anu.md), or **Anu the Everything**, is thought to be the quintessential form of **Stasis** and **Order**, the anthropomorphization of two primal forces (the other being [Padomay](Lore_Padomay.md), Change and Chaos). Anu or his equivalent under a different name is present in every culture's traditions; for instance, the [Khajiit](Lore_Khajiit.md) refer to him as **Ahnurr**, and he is a "littermate" to Fadomai. He is known as **Satak** to the [Redguards](Lore_Redguard.md). He is known as the **Light** to the [Bretons](Lore_Breton.md). He also shares similarities to the Argonian figure [Atak](Lore_Gods_A.md#Atak.2C_The_Great_Root). Other names for Anu include **Is**, **Ak**, **Bird**, and **Good**.

#### Anuiel, the Aurbis
In the Altmer tradition, [Anuiel](Lore_Anuiel.md) (or **Anui-El**) is the soul of [Anu the Everything](Lore_Anu.md) and of all things. He is seen as Order, the Everlasting Ineffable Light, and is dichotomically opposed to [Sithis](Lore_Sithis.md), who represents Chaos, the Corrupting Inexpressible Action. And though Anuiel is often described with such terms, Sithis worshippers regard him as a demon as he represents the stasis of Anu, which in their eyes is unchanging nothingness. The interaction of these two opposing forces is the Gray Maybe, [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md) (though the entirety of the [Aurbis](Lore_Aurbis.md) is also used in this context), and from this interaction spring the [et'Ada](Lore_Et%27Ada.md), or Original Spirits.

Anuiel is said to be responsible for the time-law established within Nirn. Similarly, it is also said that the soul of Anuiel is [Auri-El](Lore_Auri-El.md), who infused the Aurbis with time.

#### Arius, God of Fire
[Arius](Lore_Arius.md) is the God of Fire, also referred to as a Volcano God, is worshipped by the natives of a primitive island. The god is appeased by the yearly sacrifice of young children, and it is said that if the natives did not appease Arius, the island volcano would erupt, resulting in the deaths of hundreds of villagers.<sup>[[12]](#cite_note-Arena-16)</sup>

#### Ark'ay, God of the Cycle of Life and Death
[Arkay](Lore_Arkay.md) (or **Ark'ay**), known as the **Lord of the Wheel of Life**, **God of the Cycle of Birth and Death**, **Light of Lights**, the **Bringer of Light**,, and **Lord of the Seasons** is a member of the [Divines](Lore_Divines.md), and also a popular god in other cultures. Arkay is often more important in those cultures where his father, [Akatosh](Lore_Akatosh.md), is either less related to time or where his time aspects are difficult to comprehend by the layman. He is the god of burials and funeral rites, and is generally associated with cyclical occasions, such as the seasons and life/death. His priests are staunch opponents of necromancy and all forms of the undead, and are empowered to bestow Arkay's blessings which prevent the forceful misuse of a mortal soul. Thus, any body properly buried by a priest observing the proper rituals is protected by Arkay's Law from being raised as undead. Therefore, necromancers view Arkay as their ultimate enemy, and make covert efforts to undermine his worship throughout Tamriel. Because of this association with, and protection of, mortality, he is sometimes called the **Mortals' God**. To the [vampires](Lore_Vampire.md) of the [Cult of Lamae Bal](Lore_Cult_of_Lamae_Bal.md) he is known as **the Forsaker**.

One legend of Arkay's origins is written in the book *[Ark'ay The God](Lore_Ark%27ay_The_God.md)*. It states that Arkay was once a mortal shopkeeper with a passion for knowledge. He found a book written in a strange language and spent years upon years attempting to decipher it, slowly ignoring everything and everyone else around him. Eventually Arkay realized the book explained life and death itself, but by this time was at death's door with an incurable plague. Praying to [Mara](Lore_Mara.md) as a last resort, Arkay asked for more time to interpret the book. Mara gave him a choice: die now or become a god for eternity, charged with keeping the balance of death and life in the universe. Another theory of Arkay's origins is contained in *[The Monomyth](Lore_The_Monomyth.md)*, which suggests that Arkay was one of the very first spirits to "crystallize" after the start of time.

#### Atak, The Great Root
[Atak](Lore_Atak.md) is an obscure figure in [Argonian](Lore_Argonian.md) mythology with some similarities to [Anu](Lore_Anu.md). According to a story told by the [Adzi-Kostleel](Lore_Adzi-Kostleel.md) tribe in [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md), Atak was the first being in existence. As it knew nothing, it decided to be everything. It grew until eventually it found something had emerged from the nothingness, [Kota](Lore_Gods_K.md#Kota), the serpent. They immediately began to battle and devour each other endlessly until tiring and becoming a singular deity, [Atakota](Lore_Gods_A.md#Atakota).<sup>[[13]](#cite_note-Cot R-17)</sup>

Mentions of Atak also appear in [Solstice](Lore_Solstice_(island).md) Argonian culture, their ancestors having split from their society on the mainland prior to the [Duskfall](Lore_Duskfall.md). This suggests that Atak had wider prominence in Argonian culture in the past.<sup>[[14]](#cite_note-CM136-18)</sup><sup>[[15]](#cite_note-AFR-19)</sup>

#### Atakota, Everything and Nothing
According to the Adzi-Kostleel tribe in Black Marsh, **Atakota** was born when two battling entities, [Atak](Lore_Gods_A.md#Atak) and [Kota](Lore_Gods_K.md#Kota), fought for so long that they became one and forgot their conflict. After this, it slept, allowing things to finally have time to begin and end. This gave way to the spirits who would grow into the Aedra and Daedra and, eventually, mortalkind.<sup>[[13]](#cite_note-Cot R-17)</sup> Shadow of Atakota is also acknowledged by at least some of the [Nisswo](Lore_Nisswo.md).<sup>[[16]](#cite_note-Walks-Under-Shadow-20)</sup>

#### Auri-El, King of the Aldmer
[Auri-El](Lore_Auri-El.md) (or **Auriel**), also known as the **King of the [Aldmer](Lore_Aldmer.md)** and the **Fixed Center**, is the [elven](Lore_Mer.md) analogue to [Akatosh](Lore_Akatosh.md) and the chief deity of most Aldmeri pantheons. He is the soul of [Anui-El](Lore_Anuiel.md), who is the soul of [Anu the Everything](Lore_Anu.md), and it is said time began with his existence.

Most [Altmeri](Lore_Altmer.md) and [Bosmeri](Lore_Bosmer.md) claim to be direct descendants of Auri-El. In [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md), he is known as **Auri-El Time Dragon**, king of the gods. [Snow Elves](Lore_Snow_Elf.md) and [Ayleids](Lore_Ayleids.md) also worshipped Auri-El.<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_nb1)</sup> In the early days of Aldmeri society, which was highly stratified, Auri-El was regarded as an ancestor spirit of the upper castes. However, his worship gradually spread among the lower castes, who sought to emulate their social superiors. Over time, Auri-El came to be revered as the common progenitor of Aldmeri society as a whole. While generally represented as a [dragon](Lore_Dragon.md), most Altmeri societies also depict him as or alongside an [eagle](Lore_Eagle.md).

While generally being considered one of the [original spirits](Lore_Et%27Ada.md), some sources such as the [Codex Scientia](Lore_Codex_Scientia.md) portray Auriel as a "great Elvish [demi-god](Lore_Demi-God.md)" or a "quasi-mythical Elvish deity," downplaying his divinity. In contrast, [Bretic](Lore_Breton.md) myth describes the rise of the new **[Aurielian gods](Lore_Altmer.md#Religion_and_Cosmology)**, who usurped Akatosh and the race of dragons in Tamriel’s earliest eras. The [Alessian Order](Lore_Alessian_Order.md) unsuccessfully attempted to sever the association between Auri-El and Akatosh, and in doing so, were held responsible for the sullied events of the [Middle Dawn](Lore_Middle_Dawn.md). All but the most dogmatic of theologians tend to agree that the Imperial Akatosh and the Elven Auri-El are one and the same.

#### Azura, Goddess of Dusk and Dawn
**[Azura](Lore_Azura.md) of the Crimson Gate**, also known as: **Queen of Dawn and Dusk**, the **Mother Soul**, **Moonshadow**, **Mother of the Rose**, **Queen of the Night Sky**, **Twilight Queen**, the **Rim of all Holes**, the **Cosmic Severer**, **the Great Lady** and called **Azurah** by the [Khajiit](Lore_Khajiit.md), is a [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Prince.md) whose sphere is dawn and dusk—the magic in-between realms of twilight—as well as mystery and magic, fate and prophecy, and vanity and egotism. Azura is one of the few Daedra who maintains the appearance of being "good" by mortal standards, and reportedly feels more concern for the well-being of her mortal subjects than other Daedric Princes. It is said she wants their love above all else, and for her worshippers to love themselves; it pains her when they do not. This attitude leads to an extremely devoted following. She is also one of the few Princes who constantly maintains a female image, and is perceived accordingly. In Khajiiti creation myths, Azurah is credited with introducing [moon sugar](Lore_Moon_Sugar.md) to Khajiit, and this belief is also told within tales aimed at Khajiiti children.

The *[Five Songs of King Wulfharth](Lore_Five_Songs_of_King_Wulfharth.md)* claims that [Alandro Sul](Lore_Alandro_Sul.md) is the immortal son of Azura. While Azura is considered one of the "good" Daedra by the [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md), elsewhere she has been known to be allied with [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md), who is known to the Dunmer as one of the [Four Corners of the House of Troubles](Lore_House_of_Troubles.md). The people of the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md) region believe that Azura bewitches some of her followers to become her "lovers" and "virtual slaves". Her followers acknowledge that she is "cruel but wise".

In addition to being one of her many sobriquets, "[Moonshadow](Lore_Moonshadow.md)" is also the name of Azura's realm in [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md). Azura's Star, the Twilight Star, is visible at dawn and dusk low on the horizon below the [constellation](Lore_Astronomy.md) of the [Steed](Lore_Astronomy.md#The_Steed). Her summoning day is [Hogithum](Lore_Hogithum.md), a festival on the 21<sup>st</sup> of First Seed.

For more information, see the [main lore article](Lore_Azura.md).

#### Azurah, the Mother of All Khajiit
**Azurah, Queen of the Night Sky, the Realms of Twilight, and the Dusk and Dawn**, the Favored Daughter of [Fadomai](Lore_Fadomai.md), is the [Khajiiti](Lore_Khajiit.md) version of [Azura](Lore_Azura.md). She is the "keeper of all gates and keys, all rims and thresholds", and seen as the God of Magic, Beauty, and Prophecy. The Khajiit believe Azurah bound them to the [Lunar Lattice](Lore_Lunar_Lattice.md), which allows them to shape their own futures.<sup>[[17]](#cite_note-TSS-21)</sup>

## References
1. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-ASS_1-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-ASS_1-1)***</sup> [*Aevar Stone-Singer*](Lore_Aevar_Stone-Singer.md)
2. [^](#cite_ref-TAA_2-0) [*The Annotated Anuad*](Lore_The_Annotated_Anuad.md)
3. [^](#cite_ref-TES1Arena_3-0) [*Halls of Colossus*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Arena:Halls_of_Colossus) quest in [*Arena*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Arena:Arena)
4. [^](#cite_ref-TWS_4-0) [*The Wandering Spirits*](Lore_The_Wandering_Spirits.md) — [Amun-dro](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Amun-dro.2C_the_Silent_Priest), the Silent Priest
5. [^](#cite_ref-5) [*36 Lessons of Vivec, Sermon 35*](Lore_36_Lessons_of_Vivec,_Sermon_35.md) — [Vivec](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Vivec)
6. [^](#cite_ref-6) [*Mythic Dawn Commentaries 2*](Lore_Mythic_Dawn_Commentaries_2.md) — [Mankar Camoran](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Mankar_Camoran)
7. [^](#cite_ref-10) [*Saints and Seducers*](Lore_Saints_and_Seducers.md) — [Andoche Marie](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Andoche_Marie)
8. [^](#cite_ref-11) [*The Bladesongs of Boethra*](Lore_The_Bladesongs_of_Boethra.md) — [Modun-Ra](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Modun-Ra), the Hidden Voice
9. [^](#cite_ref-12) [*The Song of Pelinal, v 7*](Lore_The_Song_of_Pelinal,_v_7.md)
10. [^](#cite_ref-13) [*36 Lessons of Vivec, Sermon 25*](Lore_36_Lessons_of_Vivec,_Sermon_25.md) — [Vivec](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Vivec)
11. [^](#cite_ref-14) [Tulvur](Skyrim_Tulvur.md)'s dialogue in *[Skyrim](Skyrim_Skyrim.md)*
12. [^](#cite_ref-Arena_16-0) [*Arena*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Arena:Arena)'s [Generate Class](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Arena:Character_Creation#Generate_Class) option in the character creation menu.
13. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-Cot R_17-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-Cot R_17-1)***</sup> [*Children of the Root*](Lore_Children_of_the_Root.md) — [Solis Aduro](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Solis_Aduro)
14. [^](#cite_ref-CM136_18-0) [*Crafting Motif 136: Voskrona Guardian Style*](Lore_Crafting_Motif_136__Voskrona_Guardian_Style.md) — [Zatsu-Tulm](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Zatsu-Tulm), Research Associate to Antiquarian Muzah-Tei
15. [^](#cite_ref-AFR_19-0) The temple of [Atak's First Root](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Atak%27s_First_Root) built beneath [Xor-Hist](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Xor-Hist) in [ESO](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Online)
16. [^](#cite_ref-Walks-Under-Shadow_20-0) [Walks-Under-Shadow](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Walks-Under-Shadow)'s dialogue in [ESO](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Online)
17. [^](#cite_ref-TSS_21-0) [*The Sky Spirits*](Lore_The_Sky_Spirits.md) — [Amun-dro](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Amun-dro.2C_the_Silent_Priest), the Silent Priest

**Note**: The following references are considered to be [unofficial sources](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/General:Unofficial_Lore). They are included to round off this article and may not be authoritative or conclusive.

1. [^](#cite_ref-RPTrial Of Vehk_7-0) [Gary Noonan](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/General:Gary_Noonan)'s posts in [*The Trial of Vivec*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/General:Trial_of_Vivec)
2. [^](#cite_ref-8) Cut [song](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Daggerfall:Songs#Bring_Water_From_the_Well) from *[Daggerfall](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Daggerfall:Daggerfall)*
3. [^](#cite_ref-9) [Ted Peterson](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/General:Ted_Peterson)'s posts in [The Evening Star Parade](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/General:Loranna%27s_RP/The_Evening_Star_Parade)
4. [^](#cite_ref-15) [Ted Peterson](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/General:Ted_Peterson)'s posts in [Playing Houses](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/General:Loranna%27s_RP/Playing_Houses)