# Gods C

[Overview](Lore_Gods.md) | [A](Lore_Gods_A.md) [B](Lore_Gods_B.md) C [D](Lore_Gods_D.md) [E](Lore_Gods_E.md) [F](Lore_Gods_F.md) [G](Lore_Gods_G.md) [H](Lore_Gods_H.md) [I](Lore_Gods_I.md) [J](Lore_Gods_J.md) [K](Lore_Gods_K.md) [L](Lore_Gods_L.md) [M](Lore_Gods_M.md) [N](Lore_Gods_N.md) [O](Lore_Gods_O.md) [P](Lore_Gods_P.md) [Q](Lore_Gods_Q.md) [R](Lore_Gods_R.md) [S](Lore_Gods_S.md) [T](Lore_Gods_T.md) [U](Lore_Gods_U.md) [V](Lore_Gods_V.md) [W](Lore_Gods_W.md) [X](Lore_Gods_X.md) [Y](Lore_Gods_Y.md) [Z](Lore_Gods_Z.md)
---

#### City-Face
[City-Face](Lore_City-Face.md), originally known as **Ha-Note**, was one of the eight [monster children](Lore_Monster_Children.md) born from the unholy union of [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md) and [Vivec](Lore_Vivec.md), who initially escaped being slain. The [Grabbers](Lore_Grabber.md), the mysterious beings of the [Adjacent Place](Lore_Adjacent_Place.md) who had never built a city of their own, grew jealous of Vivec's [marvelous city](Lore_Vivec_City.md), and therefore transformed Ha-Note into the being known as City-Face. Vivec, in an act of subterfuge, corrected the error in the monstrous city of the Grabbers, but then stabbed City-Face with the [Ethos Knife](Lore_Keening.md), killing him. The act of Vivec killing City-Face with the Ethos Knife inspired the creation of the [Buoyant Armigers'](Lore_Buoyant_Armigers.md) daggers. City-Face was described as similar to the [Numidium](Lore_Numidium.md) of the [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md).

#### Clavicus Vile
[Clavicus Vile](Lore_Clavicus_Vile.md), also known as the **Prince of Trickery and Bargains**, the **Consummate Politician of Oblivion**, the **Master of Insidious Wishes**, and **Child-god of the Morningstar**, is a [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Prince.md) whose sphere is the granting of power and wishes through ritual invocations and pacts. He is seen as one of the more "sophisticated" of the Daedric Princes, and often appears in the guise of a jovial [Skaafin](Lore_Skaafin.md), a race of horned Daedra that inhabit the [Fields of Regret](Lore_Fields_of_Regret.md), his realm in [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md).

Clavicus Vile is also known as **Nycot**. According to some, this name was created by the mortal [Nycotic Cult](Lore_Nycotic_Cult.md), who didn't have the knowledge to properly read the [Daedric alphabet](Lore_Daedric_Alphabet.md), misreading the first five letters of Vile's Daedric name as "Nycot" upon mistaking the runes for Tamrielic letters. However, the name was used by a Skaafin to refer to Vile over three hundred years before the cult's prominence.

Clavicus finds eternity to be "boring", so he finds entertainment in watching mortals and occasionally meddling in their affairs. He has been known to be the patron to vampires, gracing them with social stature, reason and savvy, allowing them to not only live among regular mortals, but to hold powerful positions in society. However, not all of Vile's machinations are necessarily insidious; he has been known to reward those who, on his direction, eliminate threats to the general public (while still serving his own interests).

Vile is rarely seen without his loyal companion, [Barbas](Lore_Barbas.md). Barbas typically assumes the form of a dog, but is also known to appear as a [Scamp](Lore_Scamp.md) named [Creeper](Lore_Creeper.md). The two are so close, Barbas is almost universally depicted alongside his master in artwork and statuary. In fact, Vile has been known to store up to half his power within Barbas. These facts have led to speculation that the pair are, in fact, two halves of the same being, as Vile's very social nature would not allow him to exist without a companion.

It is said Clavicus Vile is the most carefully neutral Daedric Prince, though he as at times created alliances, such as his role in [The Triad](Lore_The_Triad.md). He is an enemy of [Ebonarm](Lore_Ebonarm.md). Clavicus Vile's summoning day coincides with the [New Life Festival](Lore_New_Life_Festival.md), the 1<sup>st</sup> of Morning Star.

According to some sources Vile views himself as a playful and fun-loving god who basks in the sun alongside his favorite companion, Barbas. This mindset is said to be reflected in the idyllic form his realm takes, making his domain less a normal place like one would find on [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md) and more a "state of mind". Despite this view of himself Vile's "games" are noted to often be dangerous, making caution necessary when approaching him.

#### The Corrupt Man
The [Corrupt Man](Lore_Corrupt_Man.md) is an obscure entity viewed as a pawn of [the Adversary](Lore_The_Adversary.md). The [Skaal](Lore_Skaal.md) of [Solstheim](Lore_Solstheim.md) engage in a ritual dance every 5th of [Last Seed](Lore_Last_Seed.md) to commemorate the victory over this entity. During their training, Skaal warriors practice dances using their preferred [weapons](Lore_Weapons.md). Maul-focused warriors perform a special dance on this day to mark their triumph over the Corrupt Man.

*Troubled Thoughts of a Corrupt Man* is a book penned by the fabled prisoner of [Evergloam](Lore_Evergloam.md), who also wrote *Sanguine's Rites and Realms*. These writings discussed realms of [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md) without [Daedric Princes](Lore_Daedric_Prince.md), often leading to their destruction due to their unguided paths. Signs of these ill-fated planes appeared in the reflective waters of the [Myriad Realms of Revelry](Lore_Myriad_Realms_of_Revelry.md) or within [Quagmire](Lore_Quagmire.md)'s dreamscapes, extensively documented in these two books. The connection between these texts and this entity remains uncertain.