# Factions A

[Overview](Lore_Factions.md) | A [B](Lore_Factions_B.md) [C](Lore_Factions_C.md) [D](Lore_Factions_D.md) [E](Lore_Factions_E.md) [F](Lore_Factions_F.md) [G](Lore_Factions_G.md) [H](Lore_Factions_H.md) [I](Lore_Factions_I.md) [J](Lore_Factions_J.md) [K](Lore_Factions_K.md) [L](Lore_Factions_L.md) [M](Lore_Factions_M.md) [N](Lore_Factions_N.md) [O](Lore_Factions_O.md) [P](Lore_Factions_P.md) [Q](Lore_Factions_Q.md) [R](Lore_Factions_R.md) [S](Lore_Factions_S.md) [T](Lore_Factions_T.md) [U](Lore_Factions_U.md) [V](Lore_Factions_V.md) [W](Lore_Factions_W.md) [X](Lore_Factions_X.md) Y [Z](Lore_Factions_Z.md)
---

## Academy of Chorrol
The [Academy of Chorrol](Lore_Academy_of_Chorrol.md) was an [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) academic institution based in [Chorrol](Lore_Chorrol.md), active at some point before the [Three Banners War](Lore_Three_Banners_War.md) in the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). Little is known of the academy, except that one of its scholars, [Juno Procillus](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Juno_Procillus), interviewed [Reachfolk Shaman](Lore_Reachman_Shamans.md) [Uraccanach](Lore_Uraccanach.md) of the [Druadach Mountains](Lore_Druadach_Mountains.md) and transcribed his words, publishing a text devoted to the [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachmen.md) understanding of the [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Prince.md) [Hircine](Lore_Hircine.md) named *[Aspects of Lord Hircine](Lore_Aspects_of_Lord_Hircine.md)* and one describing the clothing and weaponry associated with his [Daedric](Lore_Daedra.md) servants, the [Huntsmen](Lore_Huntsman.md).

## Actors Guild
The **Guild of Playwrites, Actors, and Dramatists**, commonly referred to as the [Actors Guild](Lore_Actors_Guild.md), is an officially sanctioned guild that operated in the [Third Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md). Authors and writers come to the Actors Guild to organize performances of their works, such as the case with [Baloth-Kul](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Baloth-Kul) and his creation, the *[Legend of Krately House](Lore_Legend_of_Krately_House.md)*.

## Afterdark Society
The [Afterdark Society](Lore_Afterdark_Society.md) is a mysterious eerie faction of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) widely rumored about in Tamriel during the [Imperial Simulacrum](Lore_Imperial_Simulacrum.md), [3E 389](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_389) to [3E 399](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_399), comprised of "nonhuman heathen" who are said to gather at night in front of the temples of various cities. They are referred to as a religious organization, insomuch as the [Dark Brotherhood](Lore_Dark_Brotherhood.md) is a "religious organization."

## Agra Crun
The [Agra Crun](Lore_Agra_Crun.md) (which translates to Blood Shield in the common tongue) are a religious order of [Orcs](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Orc) responsible for guarding the Sacred Words of [Malacath](Lore_Malacath.md). The name is based on an old Agra Crun legend of Bagrar the Troll-Slayer and her shield, Agra Crun. Members are recruited at a very young age and trained to serve the will of Malacath, and it is from Malacath that they receive their orders. The group operates in secret, but for the few that know of them, they are seen as a beacon of Light. Those of the order are not meant to recover the Sacred Words themselves; an outsider is required to undergo the trails in order to recover the Sacred Words. Throughout the ages, the Order has had to move the Sacred Words and protect them from anyone who attempts to destroy the words.

## Ahemmusa
The [Ahemmusa Tribe](Lore_Ahemmusa_Tribe.md) is one of the four distinct tribes of the [Ashlanders](Lore_Ashlander.md) of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md), in the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). The Ahemmusa are some of the most peaceful tribes in Vvardenfell and other parts of Morrowind, but they also like to be isolated and kept to themselves. They are hunters, herders, and mostly fishermen that live off the fat of the land. Because they are proficient fishers, they can be found in their own settlement, the [Ahemmusa Camp](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Morrowind:Ahemmusa_Camp), which is normally found in coastal areas. Their clothing reflects this as well, when it consists of seashells, scales, and netting. The rare Ashen Fern is used by the Ahemmusa Tribe to mask their scent when hunting.

## Akatosh Chantry
The [Akatosh Chantry](Lore_Akatosh_Chantry.md) (also called the **Chantry of Akatosh**) is the temple dedicated to [Akatosh](Lore_Akatosh.md) the Great Dragon, God of Time and Chief Deity of the [Divines](Lore_Divines.md). They are generally the place of worship for Akatosh. The priests of Akatosh always call their temples chantries, supposedly because they do a lot of singing there. The Chantry believes Akatosh is the most constant of [gods](Lore_Gods.md), for his sphere is time itself. Donations to the Chantry result in a blessing from Akatosh, and the priests and priestess have a variety of other skills and services available for members. One has to be judged worthy by the Chantry before being sheltered under the Great Wings of Akatosh, however. The Order of the Hour is their militant arm, and the [Benevolence of Mara](Lore_Benevolence_of_Mara.md) is considered one of their allies. The Akatosh Chantry is enemies with the [House of Dibella](Lore_House_of_Dibella.md).

## Aldmeri Dominion
The [Aldmeri Dominion](Lore_Aldmeri_Dominion.md) refers to any of at least three separate [empires](Lore_Empires.md) established by the [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md) on the continent of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) over the course of its history. The term "Aldmeri" is literally translated as "Home of the Elves". While the justifications have differed, each incarnation of the Dominion has sought the same objective: to reassert Elven dominance over Tamriel. </noinclude>

## Alessian Order
The [Alessian Order](Lore_Alessian_Order.md) was a hugely influential religious sect in the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md) which preached strict monotheism and worship of [the One](Lore_The_One.md). The Order arose in the coastal jungle of what is now [Colovia](Lore_Colovia.md), where a prophet named [Marukh](Lore_Marukh.md), who had spoken to the "Enlightened One" Saint [Alessia](Lore_Alessia.md), began to question the validity of elven rule. These sentiments led to increasingly abstract and unknowable depictions of a one true God, though they tolerated the worship of polytheistic pantheons as well. The divine aspects worshipped by the various humans and [Aldmeri](Lore_Aldmer.md) became many of the saints and spirits of the evolving Alessian canon. In some places, they replaced the existing belief system with something more mutable, as in eastern [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), where the traditional Nordic version of the [Eight Divines](Lore_Eight_Divines.md) was purportedly replaced by a "baroque" veneration of ancestor spirits and god-animals. They first gained footing in the lower classes of the [Nibenese](Lore_Nibenay_Valley.md), and in [1E 361](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_361), the inexplicably charismatic Order became the far-reaching and powerful theocracy of the [Alessian Empire](Lore_Alessian_Empire.md), enforcing their doctrines throughout it, and their influence on [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) has been immense ever since. At its peak, the influence of the arch-prelate of the Order was nearly equal to that of the Emperor himself. Eventually, however, the Order collapsed as a result of the [War of Righteousness](Lore_War_of_Righteousness.md) in [1E 2321](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_2321).

The Order was very austere and severe, and life under their rule is remembered for its cruelty and lack of entertainment. [Heartlanders](Lore_Heartlands.md) of Cyrodiil remember their rule as a dark age. A sect of the Order, the [Marukhati Selective](#The_Dance_of_the_Selectives), is said to have caused a [Dragon Break](Lore_Dragon_Break.md) spanning one thousand and eight years by attempting to exorcise elements of elven [Auri-El](Lore_Auri-El.md) from Imperial [Akatosh](Lore_Akatosh.md). It's worth noting that one school of thought dismisses the whole idea of the "Middle Dawn" as scholarly error, and asserts that the Alessian Order only lasted about one hundred and fifty years.

## Aliaria
The [Aliaria](Lore_Aliaria.md) family is a noble [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md) lineage hailing from the province of the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isle.md), known for producing a long line of warriors and mages. The Aliaria family’s kinhouse was situated in the isle of [Auridon](Lore_Auridon.md), though its precise location remains unknown.

## Alik'r Coterie
The [Alik'r Coterie](Lore_Alik%27r_Coterie.md), or simply the **Alik'r**, are a faction of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md) mercenaries active in the [Fourth Era](Lore_Fourth_Era.md), seemingly from the [Alik'r Desert](Lore_Alik%27r_Desert.md) region. The Coterie is said by its warriors to be sponsored by noble houses of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md) as agents against the [Aldmeri Dominion](Lore_Aldmeri_Dominion.md), but others claim that the Coterie is simply a mercenary front working on behalf of the Dominion itself. The exact truth of this is unknown.

Warriors of the Coterie are known for their curved swords, called scimitars.

## All Flags Navy
The [All Flags Navy](Lore_All_Flags_Navy.md) (sometimes called the **All Flags Fleet** or the **Lost Fleet**) was [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md)'s instrument of vengeance against the [Sload](Lore_Sload.md) of [Thras](Lore_Thras.md), who were held responsible for releasing the [Thrassian Plague](Lore_Thrassian_Plague.md) in [1E 2200](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_2200) which claimed more than half the continent's population. The All Flags Navy was formed under Baron-Admiral [Bendu Olo](Lore_Bendu_Olo.md), the [Colovian](Lore_Colovia.md) King of [Anvil](Lore_Anvil.md), to deal justice upon them in a conflict that would become known as the [Thrassian War](Lore_Thrassian_War.md). The Navy was composed of ships manned by [Redguard](Lore_Redguard.md), [Breton](Lore_Breton.md), [Colovian](Lore_Imperial.md), [Argonian](Lore_Argonian.md), [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md), [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md), [Khajiit](Lore_Khajiit.md), [Orc](Lore_Orc.md) and [Nord](Lore_Nord.md) sailors. According to some sources the fleet was composed of ships from all of the nations and provinces of Tamriel. One obscure account mentions [Maormer](Lore_Maormer.md), [Dreugh](Lore_Dreugh.md), and even [Dragons](Lore_Dragon.md) being involved in the invasion.

It was the largest allied naval force in Tamrielic history. After several victories at sea the Navy assaulted Thras, slaughtered all the Sload they could find, and used unknown [magic](Lore_Magic.md) to sink their kingdom into the sea (though Thras would rise again later).

## Alma Rula
The [Alma Rula](Lore_Alma_Rula.md) is a position within the [Tribunal Temple](Lore_Tribunal_Temple.md).

Little is known of exact details of the role of the Alma Rula, but they have some kind of influence on temple doctrine, and have authority alongside the Archcanons.

All four [Ordinator Orders](Lore_Ordinators.md) obey the commands of the Alma Rula who resides in the city of [Almalexia](Lore_Almalexia_(city).md).

## Altmeri Travel Guild
The [Altmeri Travel Guild](Lore_Altmeri_Travel_Guild.md) was a faction in [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) during the [First Aldmeri Dominion](Lore_Aldmeri_Dominion.md), which created a number of travel books—the known ones covering various features of [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md).<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-1)</sup><sup>[[2]](#cite_note-2)</sup><sup>[[3]](#cite_note-3)</sup>

## An-Xileel
The [An-Xileel](Lore_An-Xileel.md) are a political party in [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md) formed sometime during the [Oblivion Crisis](Lore_Oblivion_Crisis.md), consisting primarily, if not entirely, of [Argonians](Lore_Argonian.md). They supported Black Marsh's independence from the [Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md) and were said to spread anti- [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) propaganda, capturing prisoners of war. Many Argonians firmly held the belief that the An-Xileel were the sole reason that [Mehrunes Dagon](Lore_Mehrunes_Dagon.md) failed to conquer Black Marsh during the Oblivion Crisis.

According to the Imperial perspective, the An-Xileel "were entirely nativistic in their views, interested only in purging the former colonial influences" and returning Black Marsh to the way it was prior to [Duskfall](Lore_Duskfall.md), or at least how they imagined it had been in before it was ruled by foreign powers. They refer to Argonians who have been living under Imperial ways as "Lukiul", or "Assimilated". The few non-Argonians that work for them are poorly paid advisors. Many of those who have dealt with the An-Xileel view them as being uniformly rude and arrogant.

The exact structure of the An-Xileel is unknown, but they were known to have had an Archwarden by the name of Qajalil in [4E 48](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_48), and were led by **The Organism**, the ruling council based in Lilmoth.

## Ancients
The [Ancients](Lore_Ancients.md) are the ancestors of the [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md) of [Auridon](Lore_Auridon.md), the second largest island in the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md) archipelago. They are responsible for the various limestone ruins that dot the island. The term is used by the natives to refer to both the early [Aldmer](Lore_Aldmer.md) and more recent Altmer ancestors.

The ruins of the Ancients are similar in style to the [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) [ruins](Lore_Ayleid_Ruins.md) found on mainland [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). However, Altmer architecture is cleaner and more direct, with less baroque ornamentation than that of the Ayleids. Aside from their shared ancestry, the reason for this similarity is due to Altmeri propensity for refinement over innovation, and a resistance to large-scale change. As well as [Dawn Era](Lore_Dawn_Era.md) [Welkynd Stones](Lore_Welkynd_Stones.md), these ruins also contain [Malondo](Lore_Malondo_Stone.md) and [Culanda Stones](Lore_Culanda_Stone.md), modern inventions of the Altmer which were not utilized by the Ayleids. The Ancients are also known to have harnessed the power of [Meteoric Iron](Lore_Meteoric_Iron.md) to create Aetherial Wells, magical relics similar to the Ayleid Wells found on the continent.

The ruins of Torinaan are named after High Lord [Torinaan](Lore_Torinaan_(person).md), an early Aldmer settler from [Aldmeris](Lore_Aldmeris.md), and are an apparent example of Aldmer ruins. [Tanzelwil](Lore_Tanzelwil.md) and [Castle Rilis](Lore_Castle_Rilis.md), on the other hand, serve as mausoleums for modern Altmer. Other ruins on the island include Ezduiin, the [Buraniim](Lore_Buraniim.md) sea-complex, Quendeluun, and the Eye of the Ancients.

The term "Ancients" is also sometimes used to refer to the Ayleids on mainland Tamriel.

## Anka-Ra
The [Anka-Ra](Lore_Anka-Ra.md) (roughly translated as "former warrior" or "old warrior") were one of the most fearsome warrior bands of the [Ra Gada](Lore_Ra_Gada.md), or "warrior wave", ancestors of the [Redguards](Lore_Redguard.md) who invaded western [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) from their homeland of [Yokuda](Lore_Yokuda.md) in [1E 808](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_808). They conquered the region of [Craglorn](Lore_Craglorn.md) and their leader [Tarish-Zi](Lore_Tarish-Zi.md) proclaimed himself emperor.

Due to the oaths they made in life, the Anka-Ra can rise from their tombs as a unique form of stone [undead](Lore_Undead.md). The secret knowledge needed to bind them for eternity was granted to Tarish-Zi by [Hermaeus Mora](Lore_Hermaeus_Mora.md).

## Anthotis
[Anthotis](Lore_Anthotis.md) is one of the [vampire](Lore_Vampire.md) bloodlines of the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md) area.

## Apostles of Light
The [Apostles of Light](Lore_Apostles_of_Light.md) were an order of [Heretics](Lore_Heretics.md) in the [Shivering Isles](Lore_Shivering_Isles.md). They were led by Ciirta, a woman who had witnessed [Sheogorath](Lore_Sheogorath.md)'s disappearance during the [Greymarch](Lore_Greymarch.md). Because of her belief that Sheogorath had abandoned his people to die, she founded a separatist faction of those who had lost their loyalty to Sheogorath. They called themselves the "seekers of light", and, as a symbol of this, they used [Illusion](Lore_Illusion.md) magic to emit light from their robes. Luminary Kaz was second-in-command of the order. The Apostles were based in the [Howling Halls](Lore_Howling_Halls.md), where they planned to one day storm Sheogorath's palace and overthrow the [Prince](Lore_Daedric_Princes.md).

## Arano
The [Arano](Lore_Arano.md) clan is an ancient family of [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) that lives in the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). They are one of the thirty revered families of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md) and active politicians in the province. For most of history, the Arano clan were affiliated with the former Great [House Hlaalu](Lore_House_Hlaalu.md), but by the [Fourth Era](Lore_Fourth_Era.md), they were part of [House Redoran](Lore_House_Redoran.md) and worked with the councilor of [Raven Rock](Lore_Raven_Rock.md).

## Arcanists
[Arcanists](Lore_Arcanists.md) are [spellcasters](Lore_Magic.md) who wield runic spellforms learned from a tome touched by the forces of [Apocrypha](Lore_Apocrypha.md), the [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md) realm of [Hermaeus Mora](Lore_Hermaeus_Mora.md). This tome is both the source of knowledge from which the arcanist learns of the spells they wield and the vector through which these spells are cast. In other words, their power is derived from the book itself: knowledge alone is one thing, but arcanists are unique in that the tome they wield is integral to their spellcasting. All mages use runes of some kind, but the runework wielded by arcanists is extremely elaborate on top of producing unique feats of spellwork. Some arcanists have been known to use their power to [scry](Lore_Sight.md) or manipulate the very [threads of fate](Lore_Fate.md). Scruut, a [Watchling](Lore_Watcher.md) fate auditor in the service of Hermaeus Mora, believed that influencing fate in this manner was a power not meant for mortals, and that it could potentially result in the undoing of the mortal that did so.

## Archeins
The [Archeins](Lore_Archein.md) are a tribe of [Argonians](Lore_Argonian.md) that live in the province of [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md). They are widely hated by their fellow Argonians because they are well-known kleptocrats, often embezzling money and power to themselves at the expense of their race. Some of these examples include selling other Argonians into [slavery](Lore_Slavery.md) for the [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) or exploiting their land for foreign interest, such as the [Empire](Lore_Empire.md). In the book, *[The Argonian Account](Lore_The_Argonian_Account.md)* written by [Waughin Jarth](Lore_Waughin_Jarth.md), they are described as pompous and assimilated.

## Architects Guild
The [Architects Guild](Lore_Architects_Guild.md) (also called the **Architectural Guild**) is an officially sanctioned guild that has been active since at least the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). As their name implies, they employ architects from across the [Empire](Lore_Empire.md). One of the only known positions in the guild is the Chief Surveyor, who assists clients by checking if the land is suitable for construction, or by examining damage that the building acquired over time. Another role within the guild is recognized as the Master Architect, and one such individual held a profound interest in the study of [Orcish](Lore_Orc.md) architecture.

## Arys
[Arys](Lore_Arys.md) family is an ancient [Dunmeri](Lore_Dunmer.md) lineage that lived in the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). They were affiliated with the [Great House](Lore_Great_Houses.md) [Telvanni](Lore_Telvanni.md).

They had ties to [Tel Branora](Lore_Tel_Branora.md), and some family members were also known to inhabit the settlement.

## Ascendant Order
The [Ascendant Order](Lore_Ascendant_Order.md) was a pan-Tamrielic movement turned terrorist organization that attempted to assassinate the major players responsible for the [Three Banners War](Lore_Three_Banners_War.md).

## Ash'abah
The [Ash'abah](Lore_Ash%27abah.md) (roughly translated as **unclean people**) are an ancient and secretive tribe of [Redguards](Lore_Redguard.md) who inhabit the northern wastes of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), roaming the [Alik'r Desert](Lore_Alik%27r_Desert.md). They are shunned by Redguard society due to their "unclean" interactions with the [risen dead](Lore_Necromancy.md), as they disregard religious taboos and destroy the undead, slaying with great skill what might be honored ancestors returned.

Against the widespread distrust of magic, the Ash'abah perform rituals of purification for mausoleums and other places where vengeful spirits might arise, including an annual ceremony at [Tu'whacca's Throne](Lore_Tu%27whacca%27s_Throne.md) meant to ensure the rest of the ranks of Redguard royalty. This activity is regarded as blasphemous, but tolerated due to the necessity of its performance. The Ash'abah considers the body to be sacred. If one ever becomes corrupted by necromancy, they strive to preserve the body while banishing the unholy essence. To achieve this, they have developed highly ritualistic methods of killing that involve uttering pleas of forgiveness and apology.

## Ashlanders
The [Ashlanders](Lore_Ashlanders.md) (also known as the **People of the Wastes** and **the Velothi people** by themselves) are [Dunmeri](Lore_Dunmer.md) nomads that traditionally hail from [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md)'s wilderness. They are commonly found everywhere in Morrowind, both in the mainland and on [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md). In the [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md), Ashlanders and other Dunmer were very much alike and on equal footing, but since the days of the [First Council](Lore_First_Council.md) and rise of the [Great Houses](Lore_Great_Houses.md), they have steadily been forced into the poorest and most hostile lands. They travel along with their herds, camping wherever is suitable. Additional resources gained by hunting the local wildlife are used to manufacture huts, armors, clothing and general household items. Ashlander culture is the remains of the ancestor-worshipping tribal culture which the House Dunmer left behind.

## Assassins League
The [Assassins League](Lore_Assassins_League.md) is a guild of killers for hire. It is a secret society of assassins, distinct from the [Dark Brotherhood](Lore_Dark_Brotherhood.md) in that it operates more like a business than a cult. For its part, the League claims that the Brotherhood is merely a myth.

League Assassins are held to certain standards, such as making use of League weapons and equipment. Tainted blood is used in the crafting of these items. Joining requires the use of equipment tailored to League specifications, as set out by a member known only as the Gray Maybe in her writings. When an Assassin is assigned a target, the League use a particular saying: "Pass over them with the Hand of Death." This Hand of Death symbol is similar to the [Black Hand](Lore_Black_Hand.md) of the Dark Brotherhood, and appears as a motif on League arms.

The Gray Maybe's writings could be found in the [Gold Coast](Lore_Gold_Coast.md) region of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) during the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md) of the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md).

## Astrologers Guild
The [Astrologers Guild](Lore_Astrologers_Guild.md) is an officially sanctioned guild. As their name implies, they employ [astrologers](Lore_Astrology.md) from across the [Empire](Lore_Empire.md).

In [2E 321](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_321), the [Akaviri Potentate](Lore_Akaviri_Potentate.md) [Versidue-Shaie](Lore_Versidue-Shaie.md) gave his approval for the [Guild Act](Lore_Guild_Act.md), which sanctioned businesses such as the Astrologers Guild. They were hence protected by the Empire of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), even into the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), but would be required to pay them if they wanted to expand their influence. The Empire had subsequently strengthened since the Guild Act was passed.

## Ateia Family
The [Ateia](Lore_Ateia.md) family is an old and famous [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) clan of flutists that often contribute to the [Bards College](Lore_Bards_College.md) in [Solitude](Lore_Solitude.md), the western city of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). As stated before, they are known for their affinity with flutes and fifes. One of the earliest known members was the legendary flutesmith, Parteron Ateia, who made several well-revered flutes, which are mostly used, and even kept in secrecy by the Ateia family, though some are found all throughout [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md).

## Aundae Clan
The [Aundae Clan](Lore_Aundae_Clan.md) is one of the three major [vampire](Lore_Vampire.md) bloodlines found on the island of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md) in [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). The clan consists only of [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md) vampires. The Mages of Aundae are blessed with dark powers of the mind; their path through the darkness relies on their mastery of magic. They were led by [Dhaunayne Aundae](Lore_Dhaunayne_Aundae.md) from their headquarters in [Ashmelech](Lore_Ashmelech.md) in the [Sheogorad](Lore_Sheogorad.md) region. The clan also had a presence in the many ancestral tombs around the island. There are hints that the clan has some affiliation with [House Dres](Lore_House_Dres.md), though House Dres denies it vehemently and no proof either way exists. They are native to Vvardenfell and are rarely ever encountered on the mainland.

## Auridon Paladins
[Auridon Paladins](Lore_Auridon_Paladins.md) were an [Altmeri](Lore_Altmer.md) militant order known for their elite warriors and mages. These [paladins](Lore_Paladins.md) were known for their high-quality training, amazing willpower, fighting skills, and reliability. The main objective of the Auridon Paladins was to defend the isle of [Auridon](Lore_Auridon.md), the gateway in and out of the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md) from the threat of the ambitious outsiders and to stop the rebel factions of the native High Elves from disturbing the order and peace.

## Ayleid Revivalists
[Ayleid Revivalists](Lore_Ayleid_Revivalists.md) are thought to be a secret society that seek to bring about a rebirth of [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) civilization and restore its dominion over [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md).

The Recollection was a cult dedicated to the [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Prince.md) [Ithelia](Lore_Ithelia.md) which emerged out of [Silvenar](Lore_Silvenar.md) circa [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582). Led by King [Nantharion Rayn](Lore_Nantharion.md), the Recollection was mostly made up of [Bosmer](Lore_Bosmer.md) who could claim partial Ayleid ancestry via the [Ayleid Diaspora](Lore_Ayleid_Diaspora.md). Their ancestors once worshipped Ithelia prior to [Hermaeus Mora](Lore_Hermaeus_Mora.md)'s attempt to destroy all memory of her, and Ithelia and her [Shardborn](Lore_Shardborn.md) worked directly with Nantharion to reawaken ancient power within the various [Ayleid ruins](Lore_Ayleid_Ruins.md) throughout [West Weald](Lore_West_Weald.md). This process resulted in devastating [wildburns](Lore_Wildburn.md) in the [Strid Vale](Lore_Strid_Vale.md) region and the growth of a new jungle called Dawnwood. Nantharion led Bosmer out of [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md) to settle this new forest, establishing the settlements of Vashabar and [Hoperoot](Lore_Hoperoot.md) on the Cyrodilic side of the border. He ultimately hoped to use Ithelia's power to conquer West Weald and establish a new Ayleid kingdom, but he perished within the ruins of [Miscarcand](Lore_Miscarcand.md) in service to the Prince, ending the threat posed by the Recollection.

The [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md) [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md) collector [Umbacano](Lore_Umbacano.md) was a noted revivalist. In [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433), he descended into the ruins of [Nenalata](Lore_Nenalata.md) in an attempt to restore the [Last King of the Ayleids](Lore_Laloriaran_Dynar.md) to life and raise an undead army to "begin the restoration" of their ancient glory. He was never to be seen again.

## References
1. [^](#cite_ref-1) [*The Dominion's Duty: Marbruk*](Lore_The_Dominion%27s_Duty__Marbruk.md)
2. [^](#cite_ref-2) [*Tales of the Spinners*](Lore_Tales_of_the_Spinners.md)
3. [^](#cite_ref-3) [*Valenwood Hounds*](Lore_Valenwood_Hounds.md) — Altmeri Travel Guild