# Places S

[Overview](Lore_Places.md) | [A](Lore_Places_A.md) [B](Lore_Places_B.md) [C](Lore_Places_C.md) [D](Lore_Places_D.md) [E](Lore_Places_E.md) [F](Lore_Places_F.md) [G](Lore_Places_G.md) [H](Lore_Places_H.md) [I](Lore_Places_I.md) [J](Lore_Places_J.md) [K](Lore_Places_K.md) [L](Lore_Places_L.md) [M](Lore_Places_M.md) [N](Lore_Places_N.md) [O](Lore_Places_O.md) [P](Lore_Places_P.md) [Q](Lore_Places_Q.md) [R](Lore_Places_R.md) S [T](Lore_Places_T.md) [U](Lore_Places_U.md) [V](Lore_Places_V.md) [W](Lore_Places_W.md) [X](Lore_Places_X.md) [Y](Lore_Places_Y.md) [Z](Lore_Places_Z.md) | [Maps](Lore_Maps.md)
---

## Saarthal
[Saarthal](Lore_Saarthal.md) was the first city built in [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) after the arrival of [Nords](Lore_Nord.md) from [Atmora](Lore_Atmora.md) sometime in the middle of the [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md). Saarthal was also the first capital of Nord civilization in [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md), as well as the largest of the ancient Nordic cities. The city was destroyed late in the Merethic Era by the Snow Elves, and then rebuilt by [Ysgramor](Lore_Ysgramor.md) after he retook the city. It was destroyed and finally abandoned sometime in the late Merethic or early [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md). In the late [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), the ruins of the city were located by archaeologists near the modern city of [Winterhold](Lore_Winterhold_(city).md). After [Trinimac](Lore_Trinimac.md) and his followers were corrupted into [Malacath](Lore_Malacath.md) and the [Orcs](Lore_Orc.md), they fled to the northern wastes near Saarthal.

## Sadrith Mora
[Sadrith Mora](Lore_Sadrith_Mora.md) ([Dark Elvish](Lore_Dark_Elvish.md) for "Mushroom Forest") was one of the four cities on the district of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md), for which it served as the district seat of power for the Great [House Telvanni](Lore_House_Telvanni.md). The city also serves as the home of the Telvanni Council, but only one member lived in the city, that being the councilor in Tel Naga, the central tower in Sadrith Mora. Most ways into the city for common folk are through the [sea](Lore_Sea_Transportation.md) or [teleportation](Lore_Teleportation.md), and if anyone wanted to enter the city, they must acquire a certification of hospitality.

## Sailen Vulgate
[Sailen Vulgate](Lore_Sailen_Vulgate.md) (or **Salen Vulgate**) and formally **Sailenmora** is a settlement in the central region of the southern [Telvanni Peninsula](Lore_Telvanni_Peninsula.md), within the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). It began as the home for the Shrine of [Saint Vorys](Lore_Vorys.md), the former [patron saint](Lore_Temple_Saints.md) of [House Telvanni](Lore_House_Telvanni.md), who helmed the expansion of [Necrom](Lore_Necrom.md)'s necropolis, and ventured [elsewhere](Lore_Elsweyr.md) in the hopes he met his end in battle. After his death, his remains were entombed in the crypts beneath the Shrine.

## Saintsport
[Saintsport](Lore_Saintsport.md) is a small settlement located on the southern tip of [Stros M'Kai](Lore_Stros_M%27Kai.md). It contains a port, a lighthouse, and the Square of Leki, a large shrine dedicated to [Leki](Lore_Leki.md). The town was named in honor of Leki, Saint of the Spirit Sword.

## Salas En
[Salas En](Lore_Salas_En.md) is a historical settlement located on the coastal bluffs of [Cape Shira](Lore_Cape_Shira.md), in the province of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md). Three different cultures have claimed this former city, from the [Ayleids](Lore_Ayleid.md) that originally built it, to the [Corelanya Clan](Lore_Corelanya_Clan.md) of [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md) that made it the seat of a vast kingdom, and to finally the [Crown](Lore_Crowns.md) [Redguards](Lore_Redguard.md) that fled their lost [homeland](Lore_Yokuda.md). Today, the present-day people of the [Alik'r](Lore_Alik%27r_Desert.md) avoid it out of superstition and reverance to burial grounds, even for other races.

## Samara
[Samara](Lore_Samara.md) is an island in the [Yokudan](Lore_Yokuda.md) archipelago, between the [Azurian Sea](Lore_Azurian_Sea.md) and the [Sea of Pearls](Lore_Sea_of_Pearls.md). Located southeast of [Akos Kasaz](Lore_Akos_Kasaz.md), it is low, lush, and warm, with many natural harbors. Other nearby islands include [Irranhu](Lore_Irranhu.md) and [Moni](Lore_Moni.md). A sizable bay juts into the southern coast and almost divides the island into a western and eastern half.

## River Samsi
The [River Samsi](Lore_River_Samsi.md), or **Ouada Samsi**, was a large waterway in the [West Gash](Lore_West_Gash.md) region, upon the northwestern coast of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md). It created the peninsula which would become home to [Gnisis](Lore_Gnisis.md) and [Ald Velothi](Lore_Ald_Velothi.md). Its headwaters were northeast of Gnisis, and the river flowed south and then west, wrapping around the city and emptying into the [Inner Sea](Lore_Inner_Sea.md).

## Samuruik
[Samuruik](Lore_Samuruik.md) (also called the **Palace of Sentinel** or sometimes spelled **Samaruik**) is the seat of power within the city of [Sentinel](Lore_Sentinel.md), and therefore the entire [Kingdom of Sentinel](Lore_Sentinel_(kingdom).md). Built in the heyday of the [Ra Gada](Lore_Ra_Gada.md), Samuruik is a sprawling and defendable citadel that looms over the entire city, surrounded by parklands that take much of the city space. The royal family of [Forebears](Lore_Forebears.md) and their many retainers and envoys live in the castle. Its central golden dome and surrounding ornate ramparts guard it well. However, years of violent usurping stain the inner walls with blood. A joke among the lower class is that there are servants in Samuruik that constantly wash the blood from the rugs and tapestries to no end, creating the joke, *"I'd rather be a rug washer in Samuruik."* It is only called Samuruik by the people than in general.

## Sancre Tor
[Sancre Tor](Lore_Sancre_Tor.md) (or the **Golden Hill**), also known as the **Tor**, was an ancient fortified city in [Colovia](Lore_Colovia.md), located in the [Jerall Mountains](Lore_Jerall_Mountains.md) north of the city of [Chorrol](Lore_Chorrol.md) in what is now [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). It is said to be the mythical birthplace and final resting place of [Reman Cyrodiil](Lore_Reman.md) and his successors. It is notable for the [Fort Runestones](Lore_Fort_Runestones.md) placed throughout the complex during the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md).

## Sanguine Barrows
The [Sanguine Barrows](Lore_Sanguine_Barrows.md) are an ancient [Breton](Lore_Breton.md) burial ground in [Westmark Moor](Lore_Westmark_Moor.md), in the [Rivenspire](Lore_Rivenspire.md) region of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md). It lies along the road between the village of Moira's Hope and one of the entrances to the [Crypt of Hearts](Lore_Crypt_of_Hearts.md). It consists of a number of barrows, centered around a tall mound containing the Central Crypt. Ancient Breton graves and crypts can be found scattered across the barrows, abandoned and desecrated. Although the area is still an active burial site used by the nobles of Rivenspire, looting and desecration is a common occurrence. Despite patrols by the constabulary of Hoarfrost Downs and occasional royal hangings, the allure of riches is enough to draw graverobbers after every noble burial. These thieves have been known to loot entire crypts in one night. Many of the ruined crypts are infested with [skeevers](Lore_Skeever.md) and [trolls](Lore_Troll.md). Offerings of gems are left on stone altars, and much of the ancient stonework is engraved with [triskelion](Lore_Triskelion.md) symbols. A Breton [wayshrine](Lore_Wayshrines.md) can be found just across the road.

## Santaki
[Santaki](Lore_Santaki.md) (or the **Santaki Ruins**) is a [dwarven ruin](Lore_Dwemer_Ruins.md) located in the northwestern [Alik'r Desert](Lore_Alik%27r_Desert.md), in the province of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md). In its heyday, it was a [Rourken](Lore_Rourken.md) settlement but unlike other ruins that have been plundered and explored, sites like Santaki have remained largely untouched. The metalworks of Dwarven [smiths](Lore_Smithing.md) in Santaki are identifiable by its repeating squared-arrow pattern.

## Santaki (county)
[Santaki](Lore_Santaki_(county).md) is a small, landlocked county in the northern portion of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md) and is located in the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md) region. Santaki's position between the [Alik'r Desert](Lore_Alik%27r_Desert.md) and the [Dragontail Mountains](Lore_Dragontail_Mountains.md) provides it access to two different biomes. The desert wastes in the southwest half of the county and the forests in the smaller northeast half. The [Knights of the Hawk](Lore_Knights_of_the_Hawk.md) is Santaki's local [knightly order](Lore_Knights.md) but despite that, they are mainly based in [Antiphyllos](Lore_Antiphyllos.md).

## Sariellen's Sword
[Sariellen's Sword](Lore_Sariellen%27s_Sword.md) is a [ruined](Lore_Ayleid_Ruins.md) [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) complex located at the western borderlands of [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md), west of [Argonian](Lore_Argonian.md) settlement of [Hutan-Tzel](Lore_Hutan-Tzel.md).

Little is known of the original purpose of the Ayleid structures of Sariellen's Sword. The centerpiece of the site was a mysterious statue of an [elven](Lore_Mer.md) warrior wielding a sword, which is likely the reason for the origins of the site's name.

During the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), the ruins were home to a forge with special properties. It was one of many special crafting sites scattered across [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md), known to provide unique effects to weapons, armor, and jewelry created in such places. The creative skill of the smiths who have worked these forges has imbued those sites with the divine spark of creativity, transforming the local reality such that items crafted there possess certain unique attributes. Some of those places were known to contain lingering arcane power.

## Satakalaam
[Satakalaam](Lore_Satakalaam.md) is the capital city of the eponymous county in the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md) region of northern [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md). The people of Satakalaam have upheld the worship of [Yokuda](Lore_Yokuda.md)'s ancient pantheon since their departure from the west. The name draws an immediate connection to the deity, [Satakal](Lore_Satakal.md) the Serpent God, a spirit observed by the [Crowns](Lore_Crowns.md) and popular among [Alik'ri](Lore_Alik%27r.md) nomads affiliated with them.

## Sardavar Leed
[Sardavar Leed](Lore_Sardavar_Leed.md) (also **Sardarvar Leed**), sometimes shortened to **Sard**, was an [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleids.md) settlement located south of [Lake Rumare](Lore_Lake_Rumare.md) in the [Great Forest](Lore_Great_Forest.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), in an area known as the Bloody Grasslands.

Sard was known for the breeding of [men](Lore_Man.md) by the Ayleids. Many tribes of men were brought from all across the [Nibenay Basin](Lore_Nibenay_Basin.md), and some were even imported from southern [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). They were bred for slave labor or to be tortured for the amusement of the Ayleids. It was here that the future Saint [Alessia](Lore_Alessia.md) was brought as a youth and raised. She prayed to [Akatosh](Lore_Akatosh.md) and the [Aedra](Lore_Aedra.md) for freedom from Ayleid slavery, and in [1E 242](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_242), she escaped from captivity and launched the [Alessian Slave Rebellion](Lore_Alessian_Slave_Rebellion.md), which ultimately led to the fall of the [Ayleid Empire](Lore_Ayleid_Empire.md). At some point the settlement's name changed to the modern "Sardavar Leed", and it was eventually abandoned.

## The Scar
[The Scar](Lore_The_Scar.md) (also known as the **Scar of Anequina**) is a large desert that runs through [Anequina](Lore_Anequina.md), in the province of [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md). The Scar acquired its name due to the nature of its geography. It is intrinsically carved into the region, leaving the surrounding area wounded with harsh wastelands and treacherous cliffs, and the incision as a winding chasm. It is the home of Anequina's outlaw and the criminal underground, which is exemplified by their largest settlements, [Orcrest](Lore_Orcrest.md) and The Stitches. The Scar has been divided into many smaller regions named after it, such as "Scar's End" and "Scab Ridge". It also contains several landmarks, including the Ashen Scar, Scar's Edge, and the Weeping Scar.

## Scathing Bay
[Scathing Bay](Lore_Scathing_Bay.md) was created by the destruction of [Vivec City](Lore_Vivec_(city).md) during the [Red Year](Lore_Red_Year.md) of [4E 5](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_5), when the [Ministry of Truth](Lore_Ministry_of_Truth.md) smashed into the city with the same momentum it had before [Vivec](Lore_Vivec.md) froze it in place. It is the almost perfectly circular crater of water where the city and the surrounding area used to be, expanding the original waters of **[Norvayn Bay](#Norvayn_Bay)**. The cantons, the lagoons, and beyond were replaced with boiling water, charred shores, and the stink of hard minerals from the steam.

The rim of the enormous crater forms Scathing Bay's shores and rises up above the water. A relatively small break in the southern part of this rim is all that connects the bay to the [Inner Sea](Lore_Inner_Sea.md). Some vegetation still manages to grow in the surrounding area; the surrounding hillsides are filled with various flowering plants, and [Emperor Parasols](Lore_Emperor_Parasol.md) still dot the landscape. The [Argonians](Lore_Argonian.md) have a ritual associated with the bay. The bay is apparently largely empty except for a small jagged island of ash near the center, which is believed to be where the High Fane of the [Tribunal Temple](Lore_Tribunal_Temple.md) was located. The sword [Umbra](Lore_Umbra.md) was found here by a group of [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) scavengers. When the floating city [Umbriel](Lore_Umbriel.md) passed over it in [4E 48](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_48), legions of the dead rose up out of the boiling waters.

## Scourg Barrow
[Scourg Barrow](Lore_Scourg_Barrow.md) is an enormous complex seated deep within the frozen and treacherous climbs of the [Dragontail Mountains](Lore_Dragontail_Mountains.md) in western [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), and located on a grand plateau near [Mount Ewado](Lore_Mount_Ewado.md). Far from some grand castle or palace that one might expect for the King of Worms' home, the outside structure of Scourg Barrow is unassuming–being an "ancient edifice" resembling nothing so much as an "enormous sepulcher" that acted only as the front door to the greater Barrow beneath. The interior of Scourg Barrow is the largest complex in the entire [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md) region and features an enormous number of tight spaces, leading some to say that "Scourg Barrow is like being buried alive."

The gloomy halls of Scourg Barrow served as a home and base of operations for [Mannimarco](Lore_Mannimarco.md) (also known as the King of Worms, the leader of the [Order of the Black Worm](Lore_Order_of_the_Black_Worm.md)) during the events leading up to the [Warp in the West](Lore_Warp_in_the_West.md) (which is said to have resulted in his [ascent to godhood](Lore_Necromancer%27s_Moon.md)). Deep within the Barrow is the **Hall of the Necromancers**, where the order assembles. The rest of Scourg Barrow is roamned by all manner of undead, mortal assassins and [necromancers](Lore_Necromancy.md), corpse handlers of the [Sload](Lore_Sload.md), and even [Ka Po' Tun](Lore_Ka_Po%27_Tun_(race).md) tiger-dragons.

Far underground inside Scourg Barrow lies the necromancer city of **Lasthold** (named as a counterpoint to [Firsthold](Lore_Firsthold.md), the first city of the [Aldmer](Lore_Aldmer.md) on [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md)), which was impossibly suspended in an open world featuring its own sky at sunset, stars, and moons peering out from the clouds. The city itself was designed by Mannimarco himself and stretched out for miles and comprised morbid structures built only of bones, some old and some new and some still attached to an entire skeleton–the streets were crafted of leg bones, the arena was made of skulls, and temples were comprised of whole bodies–from above of it all and outside of a view of its grotesque materials, Lasthold had the ornateness of an [Altmeri](Lore_Altmer.md) city, the austure of a [Cyrodilic](Lore_Imperial.md) city, and plenty of eccentric touches from other cultures to give it character. The city plaza and palace beyond laid at the far end of the city. The open plaza contained a tall statue of [Vanus Galerion](Lore_Vanus_Galerion.md) (the nemesis of Mannimarco), authored entirely of corpses. Mannimarco's palace within Lasthold featured the bones of the various races of [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md) ([Human](Lore_Human.md), [Elf](Lore_Elf.md), [Sload](Lore_Sload.md), [Imga](Lore_Imga.md), [Orma](Lore_Orma.md), [Argonian](Lore_Argonian.md), or [Tsaesci](Lore_Tsaesci.md)).

## Sea Keep
[Sea Keep](Lore_Sea_Keep.md) (formerly known as **Aldveyond Beldaburk**) is a stronghold found in the [Summerset Isle](Lore_Summerset_Isle.md), amidst the province of the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md). This bulwark serves as the first line of defense for the west coast and [Alinor](Lore_Alinor_(city).md), it is an impenetrable fortress with exponential power that can overwhelm an entire fleet. Underneath Sea Keep is [Aldmeri](Lore_Aldmer.md) ruins that channels [magic](Lore_Magic.md) across the stronghold through fonts, giving it the power that it is known for.

## Seaside Sanctuary
[Seaside Sanctuary](Lore_Seaside_Sanctuary.md) is a harbor settlement located off the [Drowned Coast](Lore_Drowned_Coast.md), in the province of [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md). It is one of two major ports in [Greenshade](Lore_Greenshade.md), the other being the region's capital of [Woodhearth](Lore_Woodhearth.md). Seaside Sanctuary was built by the [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md) seeking to establish a port on Valenwood.

## Seaveil Spire
[Seaveil Spire](Lore_Seaveil_Spire.md) is an abandoned [Nedic](Lore_Nede.md) sanctuary dedicated to [worship](Lore_Cult_of_the_Stars.md) of [the Tower](Lore_The_Tower.md). It is located within the lagoon of an atoll somewhere off the coast of [Betony](Lore_Betony.md).

## Seawind
[Seawind](Lore_Seawind.md) was a province of [Yokuda](Lore_Yokuda.md), known for its grand port city of Arch.

## Secunda
[Secunda](Lore_Secunda.md), also known as **Jone**, **Shandar's Sorrow** (also spelled **Stendarr's Sorrow**) and **Zennrili** in [Ta'agra](Lore_Ta%27agra.md), is the lesser of [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md)'s two [moons](Lore_Moons.md) and acknowledged as one of the attendant spirits of the mortal plane. As such, is both temporal and subject to the bounds of mortality. As with all astral bodies seen from Nirn, the [moons](Lore_Moons.md) and [dominion planets](Lore_Planets.md), Secunda is said to actually be a separate [plane](Lore_Planes_of_Existence.md) in its own right, infinite in size and mass, with its appearance as a sphere being only a visual phenomenon caused by mortal mental stress. Secunda has long since perished and its death has led to mortals perceiving its previously pure white and featureless sphere as having its current texture and grayish hue, the moon's "skin" withering away. According to some accounts, the mortal realms were formed by the Aedra out of [Creatia](Lore_Chaotic_Creatia.md).

The [Jonelight Path](Lore_Jonelight_Path.md), a realm described as the place between places where the "liminal forces that bind each here to every there" can be accessed and from where any destination can be reached by those who can walk the path once the point where the "liminal of here touches the liminal of there" is reached , is named for the smaller of Nirn's two moons and is described as full of [stars](Lore_Stars.md) and moonlight

## Sedor
[Sedor](Lore_Sedor.md) was an [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleids.md) settlement located high in the snowy [Jerall Mountains](Lore_Jerall_Mountains.md), on the [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) side of the border. The Ayleid inhabitants once abducted a famous human tribe (the "[Thousand-Strong of Sedor](Lore_Thousand-Strong_of_Sedor.md)", whose true name was forgotten with time). [Pelinal Whitestrake](Lore_Pelinal_Whitestrake.md) won back this tribe from slavery. The settlement was later abandoned by the Ayleids and fell into ruin.

## Selene's Web
[Selene's Web](Lore_Selene%27s_Web.md) is a region of [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md) ruled over by [Selene](Lore_Selene.md), an ancient [Changeling](Lore_Changeling.md) and the High Priestess of [Shagrath](Lore_Shagrath.md), God of Spiders. The exact extent of the region is unknown; entrances exist southeast of [Elden Root](Lore_Elden_Root.md), in the forests of southwestern [Jodewood](Lore_Jodewood.md), and in southeastern [Malabal Tor](Lore_Malabal_Tor.md).

## Senchal
[Senchal](Lore_Senchal.md) (also spelled **Senchel**) is one of the eight major cities in the province of [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md), and its ruler has historically governed the southern kingdom of [Pellitine](Lore_Pellitine.md). A densely-populated settlement replete with bazaars, taverns, and open-air markets, Senchal is one of the largest ports in southern [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). It is also an infamous haven for [pirates](Lore_Pirates.md), thieves, the black market, and other criminal activity. Over Senchal's long history, the city has been wracked by numerous destructive fires and plagues, but it has survived these crises and been rebuilt each time.

## Senchal Palace
[Senchal Palace](Lore_Senchal_Palace.md) is the seat of power for not just the city of [Senchal](Lore_Senchal.md) but for the southern kingdom of [Pellitine](Lore_Pellitine.md). It sits at the center of town, where all parts of Senchal, from the southern streets to the northern harbor, meet in the middle. When it was the seat of a kingdom, the monarch and their royal family lived in Senchal Palace, but after the [Knahaten Flu](Lore_Knahaten_Flu.md) killed nobles of the Pellitine bloodline, it was the home of the Senchal City Council and briefly its military protectors, the [Shields of Senchal](Lore_Shields_of_Senchal.md).

## Senie
[Senie](Lore_Senie.md) is a small [kwama](Lore_Kwama.md) -mining town found in the [Daen Seeth](Lore_Daen_Seeth.md) region of [Stonefalls](Lore_Stonefalls.md) in [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). Located south of the [Indoril](Lore_House_Indoril.md) city of [Davon's Watch](Lore_Davon%27s_Watch.md), it is a historical town noted for its dangerous proximity to [Ash Mountain](Lore_Ash_Mountain.md). Strifeswarm Kwama Mine is found northwest of town, while further mines and the local shrine to [Almsivi](Lore_Almsivi.md) can be found to the southeast. The [Telvanni](Lore_House_Telvanni.md) settlement of Bal Sunnar is located to the south.

## Sentinel
[Sentinel](Lore_Sentinel.md) is a great city of the [Redguards](Lore_Redguard.md), and the capital of the [kingdom of Sentinel](Lore_Sentinel_(kingdom).md). It is located in the northwestern hills of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), overlooking the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md) to the north, and bounded by the surrounding [Alik'r Desert](Lore_Alik%27r_Desert.md) to the south. However, some fertile fields can be found along the coast near the city, and the city is actually a major population center in Hammerfell.

The city is an exotic retreat for the nobility of [Daggerfall](Lore_Daggerfall.md) and [Wayrest](Lore_Wayrest.md), who delight in the cooking, craftsmanship, and plays which can be found there. Many great and famous people throughout history have called Sentinel their home, including the renowned poet [Weltan](Lore_Weltan.md) and the famous Redguard hero [Cyrus](Lore_Cyrus.md).

## Septimia
[Septimia](Lore_Septimia.md) was the first colony of the short-lived [Imperial Province of Akavir](Lore_Imperial_Province_of_Akavir.md). It was originally a [Tsaesci](Lore_Tsaesci_(race).md) port at the mouth of a large river, but was abandoned by its inhabitants and captured by [Emperor Uriel Septim V](Lore_Uriel_Septim_V.md) in the year [3E 288](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_288). It was located in a fertile river valley, and provided easy access to the interior of the continent. It was used as the main port of the Far East Fleet, and was connected by road to the invasion headquarters of [Ionith](Lore_Ionith.md). However, the many reefs, islands and sandbars made entering the harbor difficult.

During the [Battle of Ionith](Lore_Battle_of_Ionith.md), the town was besieged by Tsaesci warriors and suffered terrible, almost unnatural weather. The few survivors of the invasion were rescued here. The settlement was reclaimed by the Tsaesci and has never been revisited by Imperial forces since.

## Sercen
[Sercen](Lore_Sercen.md) is an [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) ruin in the [Heartlands](Lore_Heartlands.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), found north of [Lake Rumare](Lore_Lake_Rumare.md) at the crossroads of the [Silver Road](Lore_Silver_Road.md).

## Serkamora
[Serkamora](Lore_Serkamora.md), also known as **The Serk**, is a settlement in the [Deshaan](Lore_Deshaan.md) region of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md), along the banks of [Lake Hlaalu](Lore_Lake_Hlaalu.md) in northwest [Redolent Loam](Lore_Redolent_Loam.md). It was under jurisdiction of [House Redoran](Lore_House_Redoran.md), though [House Hlaalu](Lore_House_Hlaalu.md) also protected the town in times of crisis.

During the [Planemeld](Lore_Planemeld.md) the town was used as a testing ground for the [Llodos Plague](Lore_Llodos_Plague.md) by the Maulborn, garnering it the name **Quarantine Serk**. The Serk graveyard is nearby and crypts and catacombs run beneath the town.

## Serpentstone Isle
[Serpentstone Isle](Lore_Serpentstone_Isle.md) is a small icy island located in the [Sea of Ghosts](Lore_Sea_of_Ghosts.md), northeast of [Winterhold](Lore_Winterhold_(city).md).

An ancient [Standing Stone](Lore_Standing_Stones.md#Standing_Stones) dedicated to [the Serpent](Lore_The_Serpent.md) can be found atop the island. According to legend, heroes can use this stone to rewrite their fate. These ancient ruins attract [Ice Wraiths](Lore_Ice_Wraith.md) to the island, and as a result the place has traditionally been used by the [Nords](Lore_Nord.md) to test a man's mettle.

During the [Stormcloak Rebellion](Lore_Stormcloak_Rebellion.md) circa [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201), the [Stormcloaks](Lore_Stormcloaks.md) used the island as a proving ground for potential recruits, sending them there to fight an Ice Wraith and prove their devotion to the cause.

## Seyda Neen
The port of [Seyda Neen](Lore_Seyda_Neen.md), known as the "Gateway to [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md)" (as well as the less flattering epithet "[Swamp Fever](Lore_Swamp_Fever.md) Capital of the World"), was a small village in the southern [Bitter Coast](Lore_Bitter_Coast.md) region, bordering the [Ascadian Isles](Lore_Ascadian_Isles.md).

## Shadow Wood
The [Shadow Wood](Lore_Shadow_Wood.md) was a parallel version of the [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md), a realm of darkness and evil. It was a mirror image of the Valenwood, but lay in perpetual darkness, inhabited by [shades](Lore_Shadow.md) and corrupted [nature spirits](Lore_Nature_Spirit.md).

Following the death of Prince [Naemon](Lore_Naemon.md) in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), his corpse was stolen by the remnants of the [Veiled Heritance](Lore_Veiled_Heritance.md) led by Vicereeve [Pelidil](Lore_Pelidil.md). Using the power of the [Staff of Magnus](Lore_Staff_of_Magnus.md), Pelidil returned Naemon from the dead as a [lich](Lore_Lich.md) to lead armies of undead and unleash corruption in [Greenshade](Lore_Greenshade.md). The Shade of Naemon set about creating a new realm, the Shadow Wood, by corrupting the forests of Greenshade. He planned to transform all of Valenwood in this manner, supplanting it with the Shadow Wood. Naemon envisioned that the Shadow Wood would ultimately consume all of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md).

## Shadowfen
[Shadowfen](Lore_Shadowfen.md) is the northwest region of [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md). The region borders [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md) to the north, and [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) to the west.

It is a fetid mire, often fought over by the [Imperial Legion](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md) and [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) slavers. The cities of [Stormhold](Lore_Stormhold.md) and [Alten Corimont](Lore_Alten_Corimont.md) are located here. It is also home to the [Shadowscales](Lore_Shadowscales.md), those [Argonians](Lore_Argonian.md) born under the sign of [the Shadow](Lore_The_Shadow.md), and thus destined for a life in the [Dark Brotherhood](Lore_Dark_Brotherhood.md). The Argonians of Shadowfen are traditionally born beneath the great Hist tree at the [Hatching Pools](Lore_Hatching_Pools.md), tended to by the Keepers of the Shell.

Shadowfen was the source of the devastating (to non-Argonians) [Knahaten Flu](Lore_Knahaten_Flu.md). Local creatures include giant snakes, [fleshflies](Lore_Fleshflies.md) and [wamasu](Lore_Wamasu.md), and diseases such as [blood rot](Lore_Blood_Rot.md), the [droops](Lore_Droops.md), and [swamp fever](Lore_Swamp_Fever.md) are quite common. [Hist](Lore_Hist.md) trees and ruined temples can also be found along the winding channels and dank foliage.

## Shadowgate Pass
**Shadowgate Pass** is a mountain pass into [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md).<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-PGE1M-1)</sup> It is home to an [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) organization known as the Imperial Visitors Center.<sup>[[2]](#cite_note-Po M-2)</sup> What relation, if any, it has to the Shadow Gates, doors only unlockable with [Shadow Magic](Lore_Shadow_Magic.md), is unknown.

## Shady Grove
[Shady Grove](Lore_Shady_Grove.md) (also called **Shadymarch**) is a village found in the Khefrem region of southern [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), near the waters of [Hubalajad's Bay](Lore_Hubalajad%27s_Bay.md) and the city-state of [Gilane](Lore_Gilane.md).

## Shalgora
[Shalgora](Lore_Shalgora.md) was a [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md) county on the southeastern coast of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md), in the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md) region. It shared borders with [Daggerfall](Lore_Daggerfall_(kingdom).md) to the west, the [Ilessan Hills](Lore_Ilessan_Hills.md) to the north, [Daenia](Lore_Daenia_(duchy).md) to the northeast, and [Anticlere](Lore_Anticlere.md) to the east. Its capital was the city of Shalgora. The [Haarvenu](Lore_Haarvenu.md) clan was the predominant [vampire](Lore_Vampire.md) bloodline in the region, and the national deity was [Arkay](Lore_Arkay.md).

## Shalidor's Shrouded Realm
[Shalidor's Shrouded Realm](Lore_Shalidor%27s_Shrouded_Realm.md) is a small pocket realm of [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md) created by the Arch-Mage [Shalidor](Lore_Shalidor.md) in the early [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md). It is a realm of arboreal forest, floating in a wondrous sky which bathes the terrain in an eternal purple light. Several waterfalls cascade into the void below, and the realm is seemingly home to birds. Ancient [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) infrastructure was built upon this floating island, including two tall towers with a barrow below.

Shalidor created his Shrouded Realm as an early experiment, prior to his work on [Eyevea](Lore_Eyevea.md) and the [College of Winterhold](Lore_College_of_Winterhold.md). The realm can be entered by passing through the entrance to what appears to be an ancient Nordic barrow, located northeast of the ruins of [Labyrinthian](Lore_Labyrinthian.md) where Shalidor constructed his famous Labyrinth.

## Shardrock
[Shardrock](Lore_Shardrock.md) is a small farming settlement in the [West Weald](Lore_West_Weald.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), north of the [Gold Road](Lore_Gold_Road.md) between [Kvatch](Lore_Kvatch.md) and [Skingrad](Lore_Skingrad.md). It is located in the [Strid Vale](Lore_Strid_Vale.md), close to where the West Weald meets the [Colovian Highlands](Lore_Colovian_Highlands.md).

## Shattered Shoals
The [Shattered Shoals](Lore_Shattered_Shoals.md) are a series of shoals and islets off the western coast of [Khenarthi's Roost](Lore_Khenarthi%27s_Roost.md).

In [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), the [Aldmeri Dominion](Lore_Aldmeri_Dominion.md#First_Aldmeri_Dominion) [Gold Fleet](Lore_Gold_Fleet.md) was struck by a hurricane near Khenarthi's Roost and ran aground on the shoals.

## Shearpoint
[Shearpoint](Lore_Shearpoint.md) (also called **Shearpoint Mountain**) is a mountain found in the region known as [the Pale](Lore_The_Pale.md), in the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). The mountain marks a point where the borders of [Eastmarch](Lore_Eastmarch.md), the Pale, and [Whiterun](Lore_Whiterun_Hold.md) all meet at once. There are several [Dwemer ruins](Lore_Dwemer_Ruins.md) found on the mountain's north face, such as the former city-state of [Raldbthar](Lore_Raldbthar.md). The [White River](Lore_White_River.md) forms a valley that separates Shearpoint and the [Throat of the World](Lore_Throat_of_the_World.md), while the snowfields surrounding [Lake Yorgrim](Lore_Lake_Yorgrim.md) separate the mountain from [Mount Anthor](Lore_Mount_Anthor.md).

## Shedungent
[Castle Shedungent](Lore_Shedungent.md) is a great castle and laboratory located deep within the [Wrothgarian Mountains](Lore_Wrothgarian_Mountains.md).

In [3E 403](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_403), [Nulfaga](Lore_Nulfaga.md) retired to the castle during the [War of Betony](Lore_War_of_Betony.md) between [Daggerfall](Lore_Daggerfall_(kingdom).md) and [Sentinel](Lore_Sentinel_(kingdom).md). She remained informed of the happenings in Daggerfall by [Skakmat](Lore_Skakmat.md), her dragon familiar. After the death of her son, [King Lysandus](Lore_Lysandus.md) of Daggerfall, later that year, Nulfaga was stricken with grief and slowly descended into madness within the confines of Shedungent.

In the events leading up to the [Warp in the West](Lore_Warp_in_the_West.md), Nulfaga was cured of her madness and was responsible for teleporting an [agent](Lore_Agent.md) of the [Blades](Lore_Blades.md) to the [Mantellan Crux](Lore_Mantellan_Crux.md) in [Aetherius](Lore_Aetherius.md) to retrieve the [Mantella](Lore_Mantella.md). The Mantella was returned to [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) at Shedungent, thus beginning the Warp in the West.

## Sheogorad
The [Sheogorad](Lore_Sheogorad.md) region is a wild maritime province consisting of about 28 islands extending into the [Sea of Ghosts](Lore_Sea_of_Ghosts.md) off the northern coast of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md), [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). The high pillar-like menhirs characteristic of the area also result in hundreds of rocks, either just exposed, or lying just below the surface, which makes marine navigation almost impossible. The only accessible port, [Dagon Fel](Lore_Dagon_Fel.md), is on the main island of the archipelago, reached by skirting the region and coming in from the north. The region is largely hostile and uninhabited, and has a more northern climate compared to the rest of the island.

## Shimmerene
[Shimmerene](Lore_Shimmerene.md) is one of the eight major cities in the province of the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md), located on the east-central coast of the [main island](Lore_Summerset_Isle.md). Known colloquially as the **City of Lights** (not to be confused with [Mournhold](Lore_Mournhold.md)), Shimmerene is a bustling port-town where the majority of the main island's import, from nearby [Auridon](Lore_Auridon.md) or even the mainland of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) comes from. It is also the gateway for many foreigners coming into Summerset Isle.

## The Shivering Isles
The [Shivering Isles](Lore_Shivering_Isles.md), also called the **Realm of Madness**, **the Madhouse**, or **the Asylums**, is the Daedric realm of [Sheogorath](Lore_Sheogorath.md), Prince of Madness. The realm consists of a main landmass surrounded by a group of smaller islands, the area of which is divided in half: the northern half of these lands is called [Mania](Lore_Mania.md), and the southern half [Dementia](Lore_Dementia_(place).md). This divide represents Sheogorath's split personality, the "two shades of madness". The isles are inhabited by mortals as well as [Daedra](Lore_Daedra.md), but they have been driven insane.

## Shor's Stone
[Shor's Stone](Lore_Shor%27s_Stone.md), named after the [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) god [Shor](Lore_Shor.md), is a small [ebony](Lore_Ebony.md) mining village in the pass between [the Rift](Lore_The_Rift.md) and [Eastmarch](Lore_Eastmarch.md), north-northwest of [Riften](Lore_Riften.md). Shor's Stone has a watchtower that overlooks the village, aptly named Shor's Watchtower.

## Shornhelm
[Shornhelm](Lore_Shornhelm.md) (sometimes spelled **Sharnhelm**) is one of the nine historical [Breton kingdoms](Lore_Kingdoms_of_High_Rock.md) in the province of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md), located in the center of [Rivenspire](Lore_Rivenspire.md). Shornhelm was once the seat of power for the Kingdom of Rivenspire, the north-central region of High Rock and it was aptly ruled by the Riven-King. If no monarch is present, then the regency council, the Council of the North takes over. It is a triumvirate of the kingdom's three major houses, [Dorell](Lore_House_Dorell.md), [Montclair](Lore_House_Montclair.md), and [Tamrith](Lore_House_Tamrith.md). The city acquired the epithet of the "Crown City of the North" for its status.

## Shrine of Saint Veloth
The [Shrine of Saint Veloth](Lore_Shrine_of_Saint_Veloth.md) is a [Daedric ruin](Lore_Daedric_Ruins.md) located on the eastern river of [Deshann](Lore_Deshaan.md), as part of the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). It is a temple dedicated to [Saint Veloth](Lore_Saint_Veloth.md) the Pilgrim, who guided the ancient [Chimer](Lore_Chimer.md) away from the high life of the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md) for a new one with his followers in modern-day Morrowind. The temple houses the Reliquary of Saint Veloth, which holds Veloth's very skull, the Sacred Cranium, and his bones. Many pilgrims flock to the shrine because his bones are believed to have magical properties. The temple is built on a grassy knoll and it's marked by its large [obsidian](Lore_Obsidian.md) arches and vast scope.

## Shrouded Vale
The **Shrouded Vale** is a cavern found in the region of [Greenshade](Lore_Greenshade.md), in [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md). The Vale was named after **Shrouded Hollow**, a village within the Vale that entered into a pact with the [Wilderking](Lore_Wilderking.md). Every one hundred years or so, a caretaker is left alone to provide for the [Fading Tree](Lore_Fading_Tree.md). In return, the Wilderking provides a safe haven for Shrouded Hollow, causing the village to disappear, only coming back to choose a new caretaker.

When the village disappears, it is transported to an unknown place referred to as the [forest realm](Lore_Forest_Realm.md). This realm is described as a place totally unlike Valenwood, without hunger or suffering, where the denizens of Shrouded Hollow live peacefully and without fear. Even the light in this place is different in comparison to [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md), which the inhabitants of the Vale refer to as the "mundane world".

## Sil-Var-Woad
[Sil-Var-Woad](Lore_Sil-Var-Woad.md) is a zoo located on the [Summerset Isle](Lore_Summerset_Isle.md), within the province of the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md). Sil-Var-Woad is the host of the **Royal Menagerie**, which holds a wide range of exotic animals that come from the mainland of Tamriel, including [Mammoths](Lore_Mammoth.md) and [Lions](Lore_Lion.md). It even serves as the home of the pets owned by the [Alinor](Lore_Alinor_(city).md) royalty. The village of Sil-Var-Woad would be renamed into **Silver Wood**, following the arrival of the [Third Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md), as they wrote maps of the Summerset Isles.

## Silaseli
[Silaseli](Lore_Silaseli.md) (translated as *"Shining Halls"* in [Ayleidoon](Lore_Ayleidoon.md)) is an expansive [Ayleid ruin](Lore_Ayleid_Ruins.md) located on the southern shores of [Halcyon Lake](Lore_Halcyon_Lake.md), in the province of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md). In its time, Silaseli was a grand, ancestral castle and the seat of an [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) king, whose family dynasty lies buried underneath the ruins.

## Silatar
[Silatar](Lore_Silatar.md) is a small island which is part of the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md) archipelago.

In the mid- [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md) the island was inhabited by an [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md) girl named [Aranias](Lore_Aranias.md), who was born with the power to control the earth, and her family. Seeking her parents' approval, the girl used powerful magic to create a fantastical and beautiful paradise on the island. Everything from the flowers to the island's manor radiated an almost palpable aura of magicka. However, Silatar's beauty feels wrong and unnatural to behold.

Aranias became known as the Rock Witch of Silatar, and after she accidentally destroyed a passing ship with her powers, her parents departed the island circa [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582) to seek a trainer. While her parents were away, [Bosmer](Lore_Bosmer.md) bandits attacked Silatar and burned the farms, and Aranias was forced to drive them off alone. Her parents returned with High Kinlady [Estre](Lore_Estre.md) and the [Veiled Heritance](Lore_Veiled_Heritance.md), who promised to help. However, Estre sought only to use Aranias as a [weapon](Lore_Weapons.md), and forced her to rip an innocent Bosmer to pieces as a demonstration of her loyalty. Aranias then departed the island to join the Heritance.

It is unknown what happened to Silatar following Aranias' mantling as the [Wilderqueen](Lore_Wilderqueen.md) of [Greenshade](Lore_Greenshade.md).

## Silent Mire
[Silent Mire](Lore_Silent_Mire.md) is an [Argonian](Lore_Argonian.md) settlement in the [Siltreen](Lore_Siltreen.md) region of [Deshaan](Lore_Deshaan.md), on the eastern coast in [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). It is a farming settlement and possesses fertile soil for growing [saltrice](Lore_Saltrice.md). Silent Mire is noted for its mud huts, in contrast to the stone architecture of the local [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md).

## Silorn
[Silorn](Lore_Silorn.md) is an [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) [ruin](Lore_Ayleid_Ruins.md) near Silverscale Pond on the south edge of the [West Weald](Lore_West_Weald.md), near the fringes of [Dawnmead](Lore_Dawnmead.md) and [Heartlands](Lore_Heartlands.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). Its subsection of *Silorn Buroseli* translates to "Slave Halls". Circa [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433), the ruins had opened and the subterranean passages occupied by a group of necromancers.

## Silgrad Tower
[Silgrad Tower](Lore_Silgrad_Tower.md) is a settlement located in the mountain region of northwest [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md), in the jurisdiction of the Great [House Redoran](Lore_House_Redoran.md). The town was built around an ancient minaret and it serves as a border settlement protecting the road between Morrowind and Skyrim.

## Silnim Dale
[Silnim Dale](Lore_Silnim_Dale.md) (also named **Silnion Vale**) is a settlement located in a highland area of southeastern [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md), in the jurisdiction of the Great [House Dres](Lore_House_Dres.md). It is neighbored by several settlements, including connections to Mournhold, Tear, [Amber Forest](Lore_Amber_Forest.md), Old Keep, and [Corkarth Run](Lore_Corkarth_Run.md).

## Silvenar
[Silvenar](Lore_Silvenar.md) is one of the eight major cities in the province of [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md), situated in the primordial jungles of [Malabal Tor](Lore_Malabal_Tor.md) as its capital. The city is known for its unrivaled beauty and magnificent shades of colored trees, combined with an intricate web of translucent [amber](Lore_Amber.md). It is a holy city and residence of [the Silvenar](Lore_The_Silvenar.md), the spiritual leader of the [Bosmer](Lore_Bosmer.md) and the embodiment of the [Green Pact](Lore_Green_Pact.md). It is unknown whether the city came first or the person.

## Silverhoof Vale
[Silverhoof Vale](Lore_Silverhoof_Vale.md), also called the Vale of Silverhoof, is a pastoral basin located on the northwest coast of the [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md) region of [Rivenspire](Lore_Rivenspire.md), some leagues west of the city of [Shornhelm](Lore_Shornhelm.md). It is inhabited by the [Silverhoof Horsemen](Lore_Silverhoof_Horsemen.md), [Redguard](Lore_Redguard.md) nomads known for breeding horses. The inhabitants of Silverhoof Vale live in caves in the side of the mountain. This keeps them from having to build shelter, and gives them protection against beasts such as [Harpies](Lore_Harpy.md).

## Silverfish River
The [Silverfish River](Lore_Silverfish_River.md) is one of two rivers that drains from the [Valus Mountains](Lore_Valus_Mountains.md), on its western front in the province of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), to the [Niben Bay](Lore_Niben_Bay.md). The [Yellow Road](Lore_Yellow_Road.md) runs over the river, near the estuary. The former city-state of [Nenalata](Lore_Nenalata.md) is found on the river mouth, not far from [Fort Grief Island](Lore_Fort_Grief_Island.md) and across the old chapel, Cadlew. Further into the river are secluded settlements and waystations, ideally the Imperial Bridge Inn and the shrine to [Peryite](Lore_Peryite.md).

## Silver Road
The [Silver Road](Lore_Silver_Road.md) is one of the major colored roads of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), branching the main circle, the [Red Ring Road](Lore_Red_Ring_Road.md) to the south with the hinterlands of [County Bruma](Lore_County_Bruma.md) and the provincial border in the [Jerall Mountains](Lore_Jerall_Mountains.md). It is a tricky path that scales up the mountains and trickles through the lush wood of the [Great Forest](Lore_Great_Forest.md) and the Jerall valley.

## Siuol Yelir
[Siuol Yelir](Lore_Siuol_Yelir.md) is an island in the [Eltheric Ocean](Lore_Eltheric_Ocean.md), south of the [Sea of Pearls](Lore_Sea_of_Pearls.md), that is possibly considered a part of the [Yokudan](Lore_Yokuda.md) archipelago. It lies just south of the much larger [Nalonga](Lore_Nalonga.md). [Ravan](Lore_Ravan.md) neighbors it to the east, and to the northeast is [Asil Yelir](Lore_Asil_Yelir.md), with which it shares the word "Yelir".

## Skaal Village
[Skaal Village](Lore_Skaal_Village.md) is home to the [Skaal](Lore_Skaal.md), a tribe of [Nords](Lore_Nord.md) who strive to live in harmony with nature in accordance with their worship of the [All-Maker](Lore_All-Maker.md). The village is located in the [Felsaad Coast](Lore_Felsaad_Coast.md) region of [Solstheim](Lore_Solstheim.md), north of the Mead Hall of [Thirsk](Lore_Thirsk.md), and is the northernmost settlement in Tamriel. It consists of small, sturdy wooden dwellings, arranged around a central Greathall which hosts feasts and other gatherings.

The Skaal are traditionally not very friendly to outsiders. Clad in traditional Nordic mail armor, Skaal Honor Guards protect the village from intruders, man and beast alike.

## Skaven
[Skaven](Lore_Skaven.md) (also known as **Ska'vyn**) is one of the eight major cities in the province of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), situated in the region of [Sunforge](Lore_Sunforge.md) in central Hammerfell. In the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), the city was the seat of power for the eponymous **Kingdom of Skaven**.

## Skingrad
[Skingrad](Lore_Skingrad.md) is a Colovian town located in the [West Weald](Lore_West_Weald.md) region of [Colovia](Lore_Colovia.md), to the southwest of the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md), along the [Gold Road](Lore_Gold_Road.md). Through this road, it is connected to [Kvatch](Lore_Kvatch.md) and [Sutch](Lore_Sutch.md). Skingrad is known as the **Gem of Old Colovia**, and a model of the Colovian virtues of independence, hard work, and tough-mindedness. The town is particularly famous for its wines, tomatoes, and cheeses, which contributes to its overall prosperity. Under the leadership of Count [Janus Hassildor](Lore_Janus_Hassildor.md), thievery, crime, gambling, and public drunkenness were almost unknown in Skingrad. Famous wine makers in Cyrodiil such as the [Surilie](Lore_Surilie.md) brothers and [Tamika](Lore_Tamika.md) resided here. The renowned tailor [Diocletia Orbus of Skingrad](Lore_Diocletia_Orbus.md), whose clothing was popular among nobles from all around Cyrodiil, also hailed from the city. The Colovian nobility, who often make up officers of the [Imperial Legions](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md) or its [West Navy](Lore_Imperial_Navy.md), prefer immaculate uniforms with stark standards that match their rough cliffside fortresses, and scorn the costly expenditures of courtly life seen in [Nibenay](Lore_Nibenay.md).

Historically, at the time of the [Alessian Reformation](Lore_Alessian_Order.md), the Westerners were in a firm position to resist its doctrines, thanks to their culture and location. The pantheon of [Eight Divines](Lore_Eight_Divines.md) survived unchecked in Western Cyrodiil, and relations with the increasingly Alessian [East](Lore_Nibenay_Valley.md) became strained. Rislav Larich was notably at the forefront of protecting Skingrad from the Marukhtis and ensuring Skingrad's independence. Ultimately, the West isolated itself from the theocratic hegemony of the Nibenay Valley, establishing an autonomous government, the Colovian Estates. Colovians are uncomplicated, self-sufficient, hearty, and extremely loyal to one another. At times where the east became weak from lack of strong leadership, the Colovians would withdraw unto themselves in the belief they were keeping the national spirit safe until a proper Emperor came to rule. The Colovian Estates began to overshadow the richer, more populous East then, which eventually lead to the [War of Righteousness](Lore_War_of_Righteousness.md) that ended Alessian rule.

## Skuldafn
[Skuldafn](Lore_Skuldafn.md) is an ancient temple complex containing a [Word Wall](Lore_Word_Walls.md) located high in the [Velothi Mountains](Lore_Velothi_Mountains.md) in [Eastmarch](Lore_Eastmarch.md). It was built by the [Dragon Cult](Lore_Dragon_Cult.md) as a temple to [Alduin](Lore_Alduin.md), and was later revered by the [Nords](Lore_Nords.md) as one of the holiest and most sacred dragonshrines. The main significance of Skuldafn comes from the fact that the temple contains a portal to the Nordic afterlife of [Sovngarde](Lore_Sovngarde.md), which allows mortals to enter the realm without dying. In [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201), Alduin used this portal to travel to Sovngarde and devour the souls of the dead, a privilege he jealously guards.Skuldafn served both as a temple to Alduin and as a crypt for the [Dragon Priest](Lore_Dragon_Priest.md) [Nahkriin](Skyrim_Nahkriin_(creature).md) and many of his followers, in accordance with the traditions of the Dragon Cult. Nahkriin later fought the Last Dragonborn at Skuldafn in [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201), but was not known to be active during the events that took place at Skuldafn during the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md).

## Sky Haven Temple
[Sky Haven Temple](Lore_Sky_Haven_Temple.md) was a large [Akaviri](Lore_Akavir.md) fortress built among the [Karthspire](Lore_Karthspire.md) mountain of [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md) in [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). During the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md) it was inhabited by [Reman Cyrodiil](Lore_Reman.md)'s [Dragonguard](Lore_Dragonguard.md) and served as an outpost in their crusade against [dragons](Lore_Dragon.md). It is believed to be a shrine to [Reman](Lore_Reman_Cyrodiil.md), as the ancient Blades revered him for ending the [Akaviri invasion](Lore_First_Akaviri_Invasion.md) under mysterious circumstances.

## The Skyforge
The [Skyforge](Lore_Skyforge.md) is an ancient [forge](Lore_Smithing.md) built into the base of [a bird statue](Lore_Statues_Other_Statues.md#The_Skyforge) atop a hill overlooking the plains of [Whiterun Hold](Lore_Whiterun_Hold.md) in [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). It predates the city of [Whiterun](Lore_Whiterun.md), which was built around it.

The forge is known for producing Skyforge Steel (also known as Skyforged Steel), the highest quality [steel](Lore_Steel.md) in all of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). It is said that a blade forged in its fires can cut through sinew as if it were parchment. Some steel weapons created at the forge are known to be imbued with lightning. It is said that the [souls](Lore_Souls.md) of ancient [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) heroes are what give Skyforge Steel its strength. The [Companions](Lore_Companions.md) traditionally hold funeral pyres on the forge; following the funeral of a great hero, the Skyforge has been known to "awaken" and allow high quality metal to be forged, equivalent to that produced by the ancient Nords.

## Skyrim
[Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), the northernmost province of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md), is a cold and mountainous region also known as the **Old Kingdom**, **Mereth**, or the **Fatherland**, or **Keizaal** in the [dragon tongue](Lore_Dragon_Language.md). Many past battles have given it a ravaged appearance and many ruins. Though currently inhabited primarily by [Nords](Lore_Nord.md), the [Elves](Lore_Snow_Elf.md) who they replaced had resided there since time immemorial. The sovereign, the High King of Skyrim, is chosen by the [Moot](Lore_Moot.md), a convention of [jarls](Skyrim_Jarl.md). A jarl is a regional ruler chosen through heredity and, rarely, through right of arms. The High King typically rules until death, though acts of dishonor, particularly the appearance of cowardice, can lead to the recall and reconsideration of the Moot. Since the [Pact of Chieftains](Lore_Pact_of_Chieftains.md) was signed in [1E 420](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_420), the Moot does not give serious consideration to anyone but the High King's direct heir unless one is not available.

For more information, see the [main Lore article](Lore_Skyrim.md).

## Skywatch
[Skywatch](Lore_Skywatch.md) is one of the eight major cities in the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md), and serves as the capital of [Auridon](Lore_Auridon.md), in at least the mid- [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). The city is a major seaport with ships coming from all over [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) every day and always bringing something new and refreshing with them. The surrounding region has always been a hub of activity, going as far back as the time of the [Ancients](Lore_Ancients.md), ancestors of the modern [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md) of Auridon.

## Smokefrost Peaks
[Smokefrost Peaks](Lore_Smokefrost_Peaks.md) is a fairly mountainous region situated in the region of [the Rift](Lore_The_Rift.md), within the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). The Smokefrost Peaks consists of the southeast Rift, and is primarily located on the intersection where the [Jerall Mountains](Lore_Jerall_Mountains.md) meets the [Velothi Mountains](Lore_Velothi_Mountains.md). Two of the region's centerpieces is [Lake Honrich](Lore_Lake_Honrich.md) on the northern end and the mountain that contains [Forelhost](Lore_Forelhost.md) in the southern end. The city-state of [Riften](Lore_Riften.md) is found in the center, on the shores of Lake Honrich.

The region is known to contain [Smokefrost Rosewood](Lore_Rosewood.md), which is used in basic drinkware and other uses in the region. The Smokefrost Peaks contains various ruins that hearken back to the [Dragon Cult](Lore_Dragon_Cult.md), such as the aforementioned Forelhost, and Lost Tongue Overlook. The region is found on the base of [Mount Trolhetta](Lore_Mount_Trolhetta.md), a large volcano that meets with the two mountain ranges, and the [Valus Mountains](Lore_Valus_Mountains.md). The region contains a road pass that leads into [Stonefalls](Lore_Stonefalls.md) in [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md).

## Snowhawk
[Snowhawk](Lore_Snowhawk.md) was one of the eight major cities in the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). It is located in [Hjaalmarch](Lore_Hjaalmarch.md), directly west from [Morthal](Lore_Morthal.md). It is found on a hill that overlooks the [Drajkmyr](Lore_Drajkmyr.md) marsh to the northeast. Once considered one of the greatest cities of the West, Snowhawk fell into ruin in the aftermath of the wars of the [Imperial Simulacrum](Lore_Imperial_Simulacrum.md), and an [Imperial](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md) fortification from the [Third Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md) called **Fort Snowhawk** was named in its memory.

## Snowline
[Snowline](Lore_Snowline.md) is a tiny village located high in the [Dragontail Mountains](Lore_Dragontail_Mountains.md) of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), on the border of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). It is located in the [Bend'r-mahk](Lore_Bend%27r-mahk.md) region of the [Western Reach](Lore_Western_Reach.md). The mountainous snowy landscape surrounding Snowline is noted for the number of [herbs](Lore_Flora.md) and [crystal](Lore_Crystals.md) deposits found there.

## Solitude
[Solitude](Lore_Solitude.md), also known as **Haafingar**, is one of the nine major cities in the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), situated on the highland bluffs of [Haafingar Hold](Lore_Haafingar.md). The city is a major trading capital in the [Sea of Ghosts](Lore_Sea_of_Ghosts.md), with an expansive and illustrious history that gives it its prominent political power. It is the home of the [Bards College](Lore_Bards_College.md), an institute that preserves the ancient [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) traditions of [music](Lore_Music.md) and story-telling, as well as [Coterie of Organized Scholars](Lore_Coterie_of_Organized_Scholars.md), which was one of the oldest scholarly institutions in the region. Solitude is the [Imperial](Lore_Empire.md) seat of power in Skyrim and has been the most influenced by Imperial culture since the union of King [Mantiarco](Lore_Mantiarco.md) and Queen [Potema Septim](Lore_Potema.md). Solitude is currently the capital of Skyrim, and in the provincial schism, it was the capital of Western Skyrim.

## Sollicich-on-Ker
[Sollicich-on-Ker](Lore_Sollicich-on-Ker.md)<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_nb1)</sup> was an estate located somewhere on [Summerset Isle](Lore_Summerset_Isle.md). The city of [Alinor](Lore_Alinor_(city).md) is said to be located about halfway across the island from Sollicich-on-Ker.

## Solstheim
[Solstheim](Lore_Solstheim.md) (meaning Sun's Home) is a large island in the [Sea of Ghosts](Lore_Sea_of_Ghosts.md) to the north of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). The [Snow Elves](Lore_Snow_Elf.md) were the first inhabitants of the region, and built many grand settlements that far outlasted their mainland holdings. It officially became a region of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md) in [4E 16](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_16). The island has a long history of habitation by other races, but it has traditionally been primarily [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) in influence.

## Sorrow
**Sorrow** (or *Glushun* in [Old Orcish](Lore_Old_Orcish.md)) is the tallest mountain in the [Wrothgarian Mountains](Lore_Wrothgar.md). While not the tallest mountain in [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md), it is one of the deadliest. The mountain once served as an ancient burial ground for the [Orcs](Lore_Orc.md). Orcs in the process of dying would often climb the mountain side, and cairns or wedge tombs would be placed where they fell. The mountain serves as the final resting place of [King Torug](Lore_People_T.md#Chieftain_Torug_gro-Igron). The mountains dangers, include [Ogres](Lore_Ogre.md), [Harpies](Lore_Harpy.md) and worst of all, deadly avalanches that make the path up the mountain extremely treacherous. Many an Orc have perished, having been killed by the inhabitants or swept away by the avalanches, and legends state that seven Orcish clans were sacrificed building Torug's Tomb.

## Soul Cairn
The [Soul Cairn](Lore_Soul_Cairn.md) is a [realm of Oblivion](Lore_Planes_of_Oblivion.md) filled with the trapped [souls](Lore_Souls.md) of the dead. Rather than being ruled over by any [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Prince.md), it is controlled by mysterious beings that call themselves the [Ideal Masters](Lore_Ideal_Masters.md). Necromancers sometimes enter a covenant with these malevolent masters, sending them souls in exchange for various powers. The vampire [Valerica](Lore_Valerica.md) theorized that when souls trapped in black [soul gems](Lore_Soul_Gems.md) are used to power an enchantment, the remnants are transported to the Soul Cairn to roam for eternity. The Ideal Masters believe that by freeing mortals from life and dooming them to eternal undeath, they are being saved from meaningless hardship and gifted with peace. The Ideal Masters describe the realm as an otherworldly refuge dedicated to peace, love, eternal rest, and harmony. Mortal souls sent to the Soul Cairn eventually lose all memory of their former lives, with only newcomers to the realm retaining wisps of their former memories. Those who stumble across them will often hear blessings, curses and ghostly warnings.

The realm was once accessible from the [voidgate](Lore_Magic_Transportation.md) of the [Battlespire](Lore_Battlespire.md), but the link was severed after the citadel was partially destroyed. Valerica once created a portal to the Soul Cairn within the ruined portion of Castle Volkihar. Her silver-lined portal vessel required four ingredients to activate: finely ground bone meal, purified void salts, soul gem shards, and the blood of herself or a close relative.

## Soulrest
[Soulrest](Lore_Soulrest.md) is one of the eight major cities in the province of [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md), situated on the southwest coast next to the [Topal Bay](Lore_Topal_Bay.md). The city is a quiet port-town that leaves the crashing sound of the sea behind its gates, and its coastal access brings it a vast influx of foreign goods and aesthetics. It was the capital of Black Marsh during the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md).

## Soulshriven Tower
The [Soulshriven Tower](Lore_Soulshriven_Tower.md) (formerly known as **Birdsong Tower**) is a ruined tower found along the shores of [Stormhaven](Lore_Stormhaven.md), within the province of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md). The Soulshriven Tower once contained the gardens of Princess Violetta, a member of the [Gardner Dynasty](Lore_Gardner.md). That was until the [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Prince.md) of Domination, [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md) had placed a blight onto the garden, defiling it with the undead.

## South Guard
[South Guard](Lore_South_Guard.md) is a port town found on the [Quin'rawl Peninsula](Lore_Quin%27rawl_Peninsula.md) in the province of [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md). Ideally, it serves as a trading hub on the [Topal Bay](Lore_Topal_Bay.md) alongside the nearby city-state of [Senchal](Lore_Senchal.md). However, when the fires of the [Knahaten Flu](Lore_Knahaten_Flu.md) had spread across the coastal region, it left the town in ruins, turning it into a den of thieves and criminals that live by stealing from others.

## Southern Sea
The [Southern Sea](Lore_Southern_Sea.md) (known as the **Sea of [Serpents](Lore_Serpent.md)** or the **Serpentwild** in the [Maormer](Lore_Maormer.md) tongue) is the body of water that borders most of the southern coast of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). It is a part of the [Padomaic Ocean](Lore_Padomaic_Ocean.md) and borders both the [Cape of the Blue Divide](Lore_Cape_of_the_Blue_Divide.md) and the [Sea of Pearls](Lore_Sea_of_Pearls.md) in the west. Its waters include both [Topal Bay](Lore_Topal_Bay.md) and [Oliis Bay](Lore_Oliis_Bay.md).

The Southern Sea encompasses large cities that are vital in trade, such as the harbor-city of [Senchal](Lore_Senchal.md), or the trading-towns of [Lilmoth](Lore_Lilmoth.md) and [Southpoint](Lore_Southpoint.md). Compared to the corsairs and pirates of the [Abecean Sea](Lore_Abecean_Sea.md), the ones in these seas keep a much lower profile, to avoid the passing [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md) and [Maormer](Lore_Maormer.md) warships. A large portion of these seafarers are [Khajiit](Lore_Khajiit.md).

## Southpoint
[Southpoint](Lore_Southpoint.md), also spelled **South Point**, is a coastal city in the far southeast of [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md), farther west than [Haven](Lore_Haven.md), in the [Grahtwood](Lore_Grahtwood.md) region.

## Sovngarde
[Sovngarde](Lore_Sovngarde.md) is the storied afterlife of the [Nords](Lore_Nord.md), a part of [Aetherius](Lore_Aetherius.md) where the greatest Nord heroes go when they die to enjoy an eternity of feasting and merriment, and where the [gods](Lore_Gods.md) [Shor](Lore_Shor.md) and [Tsun](Lore_Tsun.md) reside after having died to bring about the current [world](Lore_Mundus.md). It is ruled by Shor, created by him long ago through his [Clever Magic](Lore_Clever_Craft.md), and contains the Hall of Valor, a supposedly gigantic feasting hall where the mead "flows like a waterfall". It is said that in Sovngarde even the tedium of immortality is unknown, as spectral foes wait in the surrounding shadows, to do battle with any who would test their mettle. At least one [Word Wall](Lore_Word_Walls.md) was found within the realm, and many more spoke of it.

Those who cross the threshold of the living and enter the afterlife are greeted below the red glow of the eternal sunset, following the pathway down between the mammoth tusks and the monolithic cowled statues and into the valley of mists—the Shadowed Vale. Tsun currently guards the mythical Whalebone Bridge past the Vale, which leads to the Hall of Valor. At Shor's bidding, he has taken on the role of the master of trials, asking new arrivals to the utopia to prove their strength in combat against him before they can enter Shor's Hall. Clawthanes, the spirits of wolves who have reached Sovngarde, aid Tsun in this duty, keeping watch alongside him. It is said that, within Shor's Hall of Valor, protected by the power of the god himself, no gloom can grip the heart for long, and there are no shadows. However it is also said that, as it is a [realm](Lore_Planes_of_Existence.md) of the dead, Sovngarde is a place where the living shouldn't linger. Most Nords agree that [Kyne](Lore_Kyne.md) leads the [souls](Lore_Souls.md) of the dead into Sovngarde, which is why she is known as the *Kiss at the End*.

Some people regarded Sovngarde as a myth by the [Fourth Era](Lore_Fourth_Era.md).

## Stirk
[Stirk](Lore_Stirk.md) is an island off the [Gold Coast](Lore_Gold_Coast.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), in the [Abecean Sea](Lore_Abecean_Sea.md). Initially settled by the [Ayleids](Lore_Ayleid.md) and legendary for being where the [All Flags Navy](Lore_All_Flags_Navy.md) was founded, it has since been used by pirates for settling disputes through trial by combat. Though claimed at times by [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md), Cyrodiil, and [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), the uninhabited island is really a no-man's-land. Its neutral status during the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md) made [Vanus Galerion](Lore_Vanus_Galerion.md) choose it as a meeting ground for the leaders of the [Three Banners War](Lore_Three_Banners_War.md) to launch their attack on [Coldharbour](Lore_Coldharbour.md) during the [Planemeld](Lore_Planemeld.md), as organized by the guilds.

## Stonefalls
[Stonefalls](Lore_Stonefalls.md) is a large region in the center of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md), right on the southern shores of the [Inner Sea](Lore_Inner_Sea.md). The ashfalls of its many volcanic mountains is both a bane and benefit to the region and its habitation. The area, over the course of history, has dealt with conflict and war, from the [Second Akaviri Invasion](Lore_Second_Akaviri_Invasion.md) of the mid- [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md) to the [Skyrim Conquests](Lore_Skyrim_Conquests.md) of the early [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md).

## Stonehills
[Stonehills](Lore_Stonehills.md) is a mining community found in the region of [Hjaalmarch](Lore_Hjaalmarch.md), within the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). It is found east of [Morthal](Lore_Morthal.md). Stonehills contains Rockwallow Mine, which is a small [iron](Lore_Iron.md) mine and has been maintained by a long-running family of miners.

## Stonekeep
[Stonekeep](Lore_Stonekeep.md) is a ruined fortress located near the city-state of [Rihad](Lore_Rihad.md), in the province of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md). Stonekeep was once the home of a group of peace-keeping knights that were governed under a King. But it would fall into disrepair when a group of [Goblins](Lore_Goblin.md), under the control of the necromancer, [Golthog the Dark](Lore_Golthog_the_Dark.md) took over the citadel. Both the King and Stonekeep had fallen to the Goblins and the few survivors went into hiding. The survivors gathered their arms and prepared to fight the Goblins in their caves, only to perish themselves. It was speculated that Golthog the Dark served the [Underking](Lore_Underking.md).

During the [Imperial Simulacrum](Lore_Imperial_Simulacrum.md) in the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), the [Eternal Champion](Lore_Eternal_Champion.md) had approached Queen Blubamka of [Rihad](Lore_Rihad.md), seeking out the ruins of Fang Lair and the first piece of the [Staff of Chaos](Lore_Staff_of_Chaos.md). However, Golthog and his goblins had recently raided [Rihad](Lore_Rihad.md). They took tons of treasure, as well as a parchment that contains the information needed to uncover Fang Lair. Blubamka would ask the warrior to retrieve the parchment, in order to gain the Fang Lair's location. After delving into Stonekeep and acquiring the parchment, the Eternal Champion continued their quest.

## Stonemoor
[Stonemoor](Lore_Stonemoor.md) is a location found in southeast [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), found in between the city-states of [Rihad](Lore_Rihad.md) and [Elinhir](Lore_Elinhir.md), near the [Brena River](Lore_Brena_River.md) on the border of [Colovia](Lore_Colovia.md) in [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md).

## Stonewastes
[Stonewastes](Lore_Stonewastes.md) is a medium-sized settlement located in the gloomy bogland of [Blackwood](Lore_Blackwood.md), in the province of [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md). The town is the home of the Four Winds, a legendary group of [Argonian](Lore_Argonian.md) defenders that roam the region and protect the people from bandits and other dangers. They have been active since their ancestors "erected their first hut". The town's [Hist](Lore_Hist.md) tree is located in the center of town and at the west end is a large [xanmeer](Lore_Xanmeer.md) keep called the **Stonewastes Keep**.

## Stormhaven
[Stormhaven](Lore_Stormhaven.md) is the south-central region of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md). It is a prosperous place rich in fishing, farming, hunting, mining, and trading opportunities. The [Bjoulsae River](Lore_Bjoulsae_River.md) flows into the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md) along the coast, from which the [Isle of Balfiera](Lore_Isle_of_Balfiera.md) and its famous [Adamantine Tower](Lore_Adamantine_Tower.md) can be seen in the distance. The [King's Guard](Lore_King%27s_Guard.md) mountain range to the west and north separate it from [Glenumbra](Lore_Glenumbra.md) and [Rivenspire](Lore_Rivenspire.md), and the [Wrothgarian Mountains](Lore_Wrothgarian_Mountains.md) form its border to the north and east. The western region [Alcaire](Lore_Alcaire.md) is home to the city of Alcaire (also called [Alcaire Castle](Lore_Alcaire_Castle.md)) as well as other settlements, like the port [Koeglin Village](Lore_Koeglin_Village.md). The central portion of Stormhaven, [Menevia](Lore_Menevia.md), is home to the merchant city of [Wayrest](Lore_Wayrest.md). Wayrest forms part of Menevia's border to [Gavaudon](Lore_Gavaudon.md), the eastern region of Stormhaven. Gavaudon has no major cities of its own, only small towns like [Wind Keep](Lore_Wind_Keep.md) and Shinji's Scarp, though a bridge over the [Bjoulsae River](Lore_Bjoulsae_River.md) in the east leads directly to the city of [Evermore](Lore_Evermore.md) in [Bangkorai](Lore_Bangkorai.md).

The region is mostly populated by [Bretons](Lore_Breton.md), along with a minority of [Orcs](Lore_Orc.md) (much to the chagrin of many of the Bretons). [Goblins](Lore_Goblin.md) also inhabit the region. The cities of Alcaire and Wayrest, along with numerous smaller towns and keeps, make Stormhaven one of the two most populous regions of High Rock (the other being Glenumbra). While there is quite a bit of traffic between these two, Stormhaven also has significant trade and strong ties with [Rivenspire](Lore_Rivenspire.md) to the north.

## Stormhold
[Stormhold](Lore_Stormhold.md) is one of the eight major cities in the province of [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md), serving as the largest settlement of the region of [Shadowfen](Lore_Shadowfen.md). Stormhold has a dark history that involves the nearby [Dark Elves](Lore_Dark_Elves.md), as it was once the foothold of their slavery industry in the province. The modern-day Stormhold was built atop of an [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) ruin known as **Silyanorn** (translated as *Library* in [Barsaebic Ayleidoon](Lore_Ayleidoon.md)). During the time of the [Ebonheart Pact](Lore_Ebonheart_Pact.md), the city-state of Stormhold was named the capital of Black Marsh, at least for portions of the province that was affiliated with them.

## Strid River
The [Strid River](Lore_Strid_River.md) is a large river that forms most of the boundary between [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) and [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md). It rises in the [West Weald](Lore_West_Weald.md) to the southeast of [Skingrad](Lore_Skingrad.md) and flows west-southwest, bordering the [Strid Vale](Lore_Strid_Vale.md) and the [Gold Coast](Lore_Gold_Coast.md) before emptying into the [Abecean Sea](Lore_Abecean_Sea.md) south of [Anvil](Lore_Anvil.md). To the south, the river borders the Valenwood regions of [Malabal Tor](Lore_Malabal_Tor.md) and [Reaper's March](Lore_Reaper%27s_March.md). The city of [Arenthia](Lore_Arenthia.md) is located on the southern bank of the river.

The Strid is an important trade route to the interior of the continent, and has therefore occasionally been preyed upon by pirates. The jungle-covered islands in its treacherous estuary provide ample locations for criminals to shelter out of the reach of the authorities, including Horseshoe Island and the infamous [Tempest Island](Lore_Tempest_Island.md), which features a warren of subterranean caverns.

The ruined settlement of [Strid River Valley](Lore_Strid_River_Valley.md), located near the river, was named after the river itself. The Richtons are a minor [Colovian](Lore_Colovian.md) noble family that lives near the Strid River. The [Bosmer](Lore_Bosmer.md) and Colovians often met trade in the annual Stridmeet Caravans. For the longest time, this was how the elves gained resources from outside the province until the [Aldmeri Dominion](Lore_Aldmeri_Dominion.md) was founded.

## Strid River Valley
The [Strid River Valley](Lore_Strid_River_Valley.md) was a settlement with a history involving [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md), [Colovian](Lore_Colovian.md), and [Bosmer](Lore_Bosmer.md) cultures. It was located in the [West Weald](Lore_West_Weald.md), just downstream from [Istirus Outpost](Lore_Fort_Istirus.md), along the [Strid River](Lore_Strid_River.md) delta, south of [Varen's Wall](Lore_Varen%27s_Wall.md) Gatehouse and north of Windshriek Strand of [Malabal Tor](Lore_Malabal_Tor.md).

## Strid Vale
The [Strid Vale](Lore_Strid_Vale.md) is a sparsely wooded region on the northern bank of the [Strid River](Lore_Strid_River.md), in the [West Weald](Lore_West_Weald.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). The Strid Vale is generally understood to encompass the land between [Kvatch](Lore_Kvatch.md) and [Skingrad](Lore_Skingrad.md), including the historical town of Ostumir. At its greatest extent, the Strid Vale is said to stretch from Kvatch to [Vlastarus](Lore_Vlastarus.md). The region is bisected by the [Gold Road](Lore_Gold_Road.md), and is home to vineyards and [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) estates.

## Stros M'Kai
[Stros M'Kai](Lore_Stros_M%27Kai.md), named **Sanloa M'Kai** (Sister of Thought) in [Yoku](Lore_Yoku.md), is a strategically located tropical island off the southern coast of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md) near the [Cape of the Blue Divide](Lore_Cape_of_the_Blue_Divide.md). It is renowned for the completely steam-powered [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md) ruins of [Bthzark](Lore_Bthzark.md) and the observatory of similar design containing a telescope and orrery.

Its main two settlements are the city of [Port Hunding](Lore_Port_Hunding.md), which has also been called Stros M'Kai at times, and the small settlement of [Saintsport](Lore_Saintsport.md) that is found at the southern tip of the island.

## Summerset Isle
[Summerset](Lore_Summerset_Isle.md)<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_nb1)</sup> (also referred to as: **Summerset Isle**, the **Eternal Isle**, and **Blessed Isle**) is a large island to the southwest of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md)'s mainland. It is the largest of the three main islands in the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md), which encompasses over a dozen more smaller islands. The province's capital city of [Alinor](Lore_Alinor_(city).md) is found here.

## Summerset Isles
The [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md) (sometimes spelled **Sumurset**, **Summurset** or **Sumerset**),<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_nb1)</sup> officially named **Alinor** since [4E 22](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_22), is a province in southwest [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) consisting of fourteen islands of varying size. The three largest and most significant islands are [Summerset Isle](Lore_Summerset_Isle.md), [Auridon](Lore_Auridon.md), and [Artaeum](Lore_Artaeum.md), the latter of which is apt to disappear for sizable lengths of time without warning. It was settled and ruled under the [Kingdom of Alinor](Lore_Kingdom_of_Alinor.md) in ancient times, but in [4E 22](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_22), the [Thalmor](Lore_Thalmor.md) seized power and renamed the province after its capital, [Alinor](Lore_Alinor_(city).md), though many outside the province still refer to it as Summerset. The current inhabitants of the province are the [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md), though [goblins](Lore_Goblin.md) were there when the elves first arrived. It is believed that the first inhabitants were the [Sload](Lore_Sload.md) before they were driven away by the [Aldmer](Lore_Aldmer.md), whom the Altmer claim to be directly descended from.

## Sundercliff
[Sundercliff](Lore_Sundercliff.md) was a village located in [Nibenay Basin](Lore_Nibenay_Basin.md), east of [Lake Canulus](Lore_Lake_Canulus.md) and west of the [Valus Mountains](Lore_Valus_Mountains.md) making up the border between [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) and the eastern provinces of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md) and [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md). It sits far away from any modern-day settlement, at a roughly equally far distance from [Bravil](Lore_Bravil.md), [Cheydinhal](Lore_Cheydinhal.md), and [Leyawiin](Lore_Leyawiin.md), and contained ancient underground tunnels leading to Lake Canulus.

It was originally the site of **[Varsa Baalim](Lore_Varsa_Baalim.md)**, an ancient [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) city. The fort of **Sundercliff Watch** (or **Sundercliff Keep** or **Fort Sundercliff**) once rose over the village of Sundercliff. It served to defend the border with Morrowind and Black Marsh, but it was abandoned due to cutbacks during the [Three Banners War](Lore_Three_Banners_War.md) of [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582). The village later fell into ruin, with the fort being all that remained of it by the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md).

## Sundered Hills
The [Sundered Hills](Lore_Sundered_Hills.md) is a region in the northeastern [Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md). Situated in the east of the Reach, the Sundered Hills border the expansive [Tundra Plateau](Lore_Tundra_Plateau.md) of [Whiterun](Lore_Whiterun.md) to the east.The precise boundaries of the Sundered Hills are unclear; however, it encompasses the region where Red Eagle's stronghold is situated. Certain sources say that [Red Eagle Redoubt](Lore_Red_Eagle_Redoubt.md) was perched on the precipice of the Tundra Plateau, others that it was within the Sundered Hills. The area where the Sundered Towers are located, was also referred to as Red Eagle Ridge.

## Sunhold
[Sunhold](Lore_Sunhold.md) is one of the eight major cities in the province of the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md), found on the south-central coast of [Summerset Isle](Lore_Summerset_Isle.md). The city is known for its narrow winding alleyways, tall impenetrable sea walls, and one of the island's largest harbors. It is not only considered the heart of shipping in the province but it also holds one of the largest naval fleets on Summerset.

## Sunport
[Sunport](Lore_Sunport.md) is the [Corelanyan](Lore_Clan_Corelanya.md) capital city on the eastern coast of [Sunport Bay](Lore_Sunport_Bay.md). It is said to rival the metropolises of the [mainland](Lore_Tamriel.md) and [Pyandonea](Lore_Pyandonea.md). Sunport was originally a far-flung trading outpost of the clan, but was built up into a city after they lost their holdings in [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md) and were exiled from [Summerset](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md), becoming the home of the remaining Corelanya Clan.

The city was built upon **Tluthik-Tzel**, a temple belonging to the [Argonians](Lore_Argonian.md) who already lived on the island, which can still be seen throughout the city to this day. During the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md), Sunport was under the rulership of [Regent Karinwe](Lore_Karinwe_Corelanya.md), who ruled from Vinutilmo Palace within the Palace District on the eastern side of the city.

The Sunport Docks are outside the western walls, and are the transportation hub for passage off Solstice. The roads going north from the city lead to Deetra Grotto and the Li-Xal Pass.

## Sunspire
[Sunspire](Lore_Sunspire.md) is a [Khajiiti](Lore_Khajiit.md) temple found in the region of [Anequina](Lore_Anequina.md), within the province of [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md). Sunspire is considered holy ground to the Khajiit across Northern Elsweyr. At the summit of Sunspire, the Dragon King of the Cats, [Alkosh](Lore_Alkosh.md) is said to have defended the people from the star-made knight, [Pelinal Whitestrake](Lore_Pelinal_Whitestrake.md), who slaughtered the Khajiit in a blind rage. Afterwards, the devout constructed Sunspire and paid homage to Alkosh.

## Suran
[Suran](Lore_Suran.md) was a medium-sized town situated on the eastern coast of [Lake Masobi](Lore_Lake_Masobi.md), within the [Ascadian Isles](Lore_Ascadian_Isles.md). The town was built by the Hlaalu Construction Syndic in the mid- [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), having been contracted by [House Redoran](Lore_Redoran.md).

Architecturally, Suran resembled a typical [Hlaalu](Lore_House_Hlaalu.md) market town, complete with a watchtower and a small temple. House Redoran originally controlled the town, but it was later taken over by House Hlaalu.

## Sutch
[Sutch](Lore_Sutch.md) was a major [Colovian](Lore_Colovia.md) city located in the [Gold Coast](Lore_Gold_Coast.md) region of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), near the edges of the [Colovian Highlands](Lore_Colovian_Highlands.md) and the border with [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md). From the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md) to the end of the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), Sutch was a notable cultural hub noted for its artists, artisans, and performers that attracted visitors seeking artistic and philosophical pursuits. County Sutch extended north towards the [Brena River](Lore_Brena_River.md), an area which is now considered part of County [Kvatch](Lore_Kvatch.md). Sutch was connected to the [Gold Road](Lore_Gold_Road.md) north of [Anvil](Lore_Anvil.md).

## Sword's Rest Isle
[Sword's Rest Isle](Lore_Sword%27s_Rest_Isle.md) (or simply **Sword's Rest**) is an island located off the coast of [Daggerfall](Lore_Daggerfall.md), under the government of the province of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md). During the rule of High King [Emeric](Lore_Emeric.md) in [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md) it served as a getaway for the monarch whenever he wanted to escape the daily pressures of running the [Daggerfall Covenant](Lore_Daggerfall_Covenant.md) alliance. [Lion Guard](Lore_Lion_Guard.md) unit was stationed on the island to provide protection. It contains a luxurious complex of facilities designed to ensure the comfort of the monarch during their stay on the island. King's chambers were additionally protected by magical wards.

## The Systres
The [Systres](Lore_Systres.md) (also the called the **Systres Archipelago**, **Systres Isles**, **Systres Islands**, and formally the **Duchy of Systres**) are a group of islands in the [Abecean Sea](Lore_Abecean_Sea.md), far to the southwest of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md) and northwest of [Summerset Isle](Lore_Summerset_Isle.md). It is one of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md)'s westernmost regions. The largest island is named [High Isle](Lore_High_Isle.md), where [House Dufort](Lore_House_Dufort.md) rules the archipelago from their seat of power in Castle Navire; the jungled prison colony of [Amenos](Lore_Amenos.md) lies to the north. The third largest island is [Galen](Lore_Galen.md) to the northwest, where [House Mornard](Lore_House_Mornard.md) operates from the city of [Vastyr](Lore_Vastyr.md). The fourth largest island, [Y'ffelon](Lore_Y%27ffelon.md), is north of High Isle and northwest of Amenos. It contains a semi-dormant volcano. The nearest islands are [Pankor](Lore_Pankor.md) to the northwest and [Eyevea](Lore_Eyevea.md) to the southeast; another group of three smaller islands are found directly west, southwest of Pankor.

## References
1. [^](#cite_ref-PGE1M_1-0) [*Pocket Guide to the Empire, 1st Edition: Morrowind*](Lore_Pocket_Guide_to_the_Empire,_1st_Edition_Morrowind.md) — [Imperial Geographical Society](Lore_Imperial_Geographical_Society.md), [2E 864](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_864)
2. [^](#cite_ref-Po M_2-0) [*People of Morrowind*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/General:People_of_Morrowind) — Various