# People O

[Overview](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:People) | [A](Lore_People_A.md) [B](Lore_People_B.md) [C](Lore_People_C.md) [D](Lore_People_D.md) [E](Lore_People_E.md) [F](Lore_People_F.md) [G](Lore_People_G.md) [H](Lore_People_H.md) [I](Lore_People_I.md) [J](Lore_People_J.md) [K](Lore_People_K.md) [L](Lore_People_L.md) [M](Lore_People_M.md) [N](Lore_People_N.md) O [P](Lore_People_P.md) [Q](Lore_People_Q.md) [R](Lore_People_R.md) [S](Lore_People_S.md) [T](Lore_People_T.md) [U](Lore_People_U.md) [V](Lore_People_V.md) [W](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:People_W) [X](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:People_X) [Y](Lore_People_Y.md) [Z](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:People_Z)
---

#### Ocato of Firsthold (?b - ca. [4E 15](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_15))
[Ocato of Firsthold](Lore_Ocato_of_Firsthold.md) ([/ˈ ˈə͡ʊ-kˈɑː-tˈə͡ʊ/](https://www.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:IPA/English) *Owe- **cah** -toe* Link ⏵) was the [Imperial Battlemage of Tamriel](Lore_Imperial_Battlemage_of_Tamriel.md) and Lord High Chancellor of the [Elder Council](Lore_Elder_Council.md) under [Emperor](Lore_Cyrodilic_Emperors.md) [Uriel Septim VII](Lore_Uriel_VII.md) during the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md). After Uriel VII's assassination in [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433), Ocato, as head of the Elder Council, served as the [Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md)'s de facto ruler, and he helped lead the Empire through the [Oblivion Crisis](Lore_Oblivion_Crisis.md). At the end of the Oblivion Crisis and the Third Era, [Martin Septim](Lore_Martin_Septim.md), an illegitimate son of Uriel VII, sacrificed himself to end the crisis, but this rendered the [Septim Dynasty](Lore_Septim_Dynasty.md) extinct. Ocato convened the full Elder Council to select a new emperor, but the council failed to make a selection. Without an emperor, imperial control outside of Cyrodiil quickly began to dissipate, so Ocato reluctantly agreed to become potentate, serving in the position until he was assassinated circa [4E 15](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_15). After his assassination, the Empire entered the chaotic period known as the [Stormcrown Interregnum](Lore_Stormcrown_Interregnum.md).

#### Saint Octavien, Priest of Arkay (fl. before 2E 582)
**Saint** [Octavien](Lore_Octavien.md) was a priest of [Arkay](Lore_Arkay.md). Little is known about his life, but more is known about his death and legacy. He was killed by [Daedra](Lore_Daedra.md) worshippers with a scythe. His death is remembered by the Bretons, and the scythe became a holy relic of Arkay. The damaged scythe was preserved in the Lorkrata Hills, and a piece of it was retrieved by the [knights of Arkay](Lore_Breton_Knightly_Orders.md) in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582) to combat the [undead](Lore_Undead.md) armies that assaulted [Rivenspire](Lore_Rivenspire.md).

Saint Octavien was depicted on bronze talismans.

#### Odahviing
[Odahviing](Lore_Odahviing.md) is a red [dragon](Lore_Dragon.md) whose name means **Winged Snow Hunter** (or literally **Snow Hunter Wing**) in the [Dragon Language](Lore_Dragon_Language.md). Not much is known about his life prior to his resurrection by [Alduin](Lore_Alduin.md). It is possible he originates from [Akavir](Lore_Akavir.md), as it has been said to be the homeland of red Dragons.

He was likely slain some time in the [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md), perhaps during the [Dragon War](Lore_Dragon_War.md), although his soul was not devoured. Like many dragons, his remains were retrieved by members of the [Dragon Cult](Lore_Dragon_Cult.md), and he was buried in a dragon mound near the [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) city of [Riften](Lore_Riften.md). The location of his grave was discovered through interrogation of Dragon Cultists by the [Akaviri](Lore_Akavir.md) [Dragonguard](Lore_Dragonguard.md), and was later documented by the [Blades](Lore_Blades.md) in [2E 373](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_373).

In [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201), Odahviing was returned to life by Alduin and became his ally. After the [Last Dragonborn](Lore_Last_Dragonborn.md) failed to defeat Alduin on [Mundus](Lore_Mundus.md), Odahviing was targeted for interrogation. The Dragonborn called his name through the use of the [thu'um](Lore_Thu%27um.md), which dragons perceive as a challenge. By following the call, Odahviing was lured into Dragonsreach, the castle in [Whiterun](Lore_Whiterun.md) which was used by [King Olaf One-Eye](Lore_Olaf_One-Eye.md) to imprison the dragon [Numinex](Lore_Numinex.md) in the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md). With the help of the Jarl of Whiterun, the Dragonborn used an ancient dragon trap to capture Odahviing. Ensnared and defeated, Odahviing spoke with the Dragonborn and revealed that Alduin had retreated to [Sovngarde](Lore_Sovngarde.md). In return for his freedom, he agreed to bring the Dragonborn to [Skuldafn Temple](Lore_Skuldafn.md), an ancient ruin located high in the [Velothi Mountains](Lore_Velothi_Mountains.md) reachable only by flight, where a portal to Sovngarde was located.

After Alduin's defeat in Sovngarde, Odahviing allied himself with the Dragonborn and provided aid in battle when called. He was uninterested in the [Way of the Voice](Lore_Way_of_the_Voice.md), and thought that [Paarthurnax](Lore_Paarthurnax.md) was foolish for trying to convert the remaining dragons to the philosophy. Odahviing remained at the [Throat of the World](Lore_Throat_of_the_World.md), seemingly of no great concern to the reformed Blades.

#### Odar the Brave (?b - ?d)
[Odar the Brave](Lore_Odar_the_Brave.md) was a [Nord](Lore_Nord.md) king of unspecified origin, who was renowned for defeating an army of [Ogres](Lore_Ogre.md), led by an Ogre king, who plagued his land before being raised to kingship.

#### Saint Ohmandil (fl. before 2E 582)
**Saint ** [Ohmandil](Lore_Ohmandil.md) was a revered figure among the [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md).

Ohmandil attained sainthood at some point before [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582). Their circlet was kept as a holy relic in Torinaan, among other prized items of religious and cultural value.

#### King Olaf One-Eye (?b - [1E 452](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_452))
**King** [Olaf One-Eye](Lore_Olaf_One-Eye.md) was a [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md) [Nord](Lore_Nord.md) Jarl of [Whiterun](Lore_Whiterun.md) (and later High King of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md)) famous for imprisoning the [Dragon](Lore_Dragon.md) [Numinex](Lore_Numinex.md) within his palace, which was dubbed Dragonsreach in honor of this feat. Olaf purportedly confronted the dragon with some of his troops on top of [Mount Anthor](Lore_Mount_Anthor.md), where he used the [Thu'um](Lore_Thu%27um.md) to aid him in a duel which ended in Numinex's defeat. Olaf then conveyed the dragon back to Whiterun where he imprisoned it in his castle. Numinex was purportedly imprisoned there until his death. After death, the dragon's skull was kept as a trophy, and was still on the wall above the throne in Dragonsreach, where it has remained into modern times.

Due to his fame, Olaf was eventually named High King of Skyrim. However, his reign, which started in [1E 420](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_420) and lasted 32 years, saw its share of controversy. Notably, the bard [Svaknir](Lore_Svaknir.md) wrote a scathing verse decrying him as a fraud and a tyrant. Olaf responded by imprisoning the bard and destroying every copy of the verse which could be found. Ancient bard texts, perhaps inspired by Svaknir, claimed that Olaf and his men came upon a weakened Numinex and captured the dragon without significant effort, and fabricated the orthodox tale to ensure his place as Jarl and possibly to aid in his bid to become High King. Believers of the non orthodox account would speculate just how exactly Olaf pulled off the feat of imprisoning Numinex, some of the theories were that Olaf came upon Numinex while he was asleep, others that he struck a deal with him, and some theories even went as far as to speculate that Olaf himself was the Dragon Numinex who was able to polymorph between human and dragon forms. An effigy of Olaf is ritually burned in [Solitude](Lore_Solitude.md) as part of an annual festival known as "The Burning of King Olaf". However, Olaf is still remembered in Skyrim for reuniting the province after the [War of Succession](Lore_War_of_Succession.md) and for conquering [The Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md). For more information, see the [lore article](Lore_Olaf_One-Eye.md).

#### Olava the Fair, Living Saint of Mara (?b - [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433))
[Olava the Fair](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Olava_the_Fair) was a [Living Saint](Lore_Living_Saints.md) of [Mara](Lore_Mara.md) towards the close of the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md). Olava worked tirelessly at the Great Chapel of Mara in the impoverished city of [Bravil](Lore_Bravil.md), a task she often found daunting. Olava was brutally slaughtered alongside her fellow chapel residents in an attack by a group of [Aurorans](Lore_Auroran.md) sent by [Umaril the Unfeathered](Lore_Umaril_the_Unfeathered.md) to desecrate the chapel as part of his war against the [Nine Divines](Lore_Nine_Divines.md).

#### Olmgerd the Outlaw (fl. 1E 3rd century)
Bastard son of [Harald Hand-Free](Lore_Harald.md). He and his brothers [Hjalmer](Lore_Hjalmer.md) and [Vrage the Gifted](Lore_Vrage.md) ruled over the [First Empire of the Nords](Lore_First_Empire_of_the_Nords.md) after their father's death in [1E 221](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_221). He fought and died in present-day [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md), where he was buried "as befits a [Nord](Lore_Nord.md) lord's son": on his ship, in the Tukushapal caverns, with his riches and his enchanted axe named [Stormkiss](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Stormkiss).<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-ENB-1)</sup><sup>[[2]](#cite_note-Ennbjof-2)</sup>

#### Saint Olms the Just (fl. before 2E 582)
[Saint Olms the Just](Lore_Olms.md) is the [Dunmeri](Lore_Dunmer.md) patron [saint](Lore_Temple_Saints.md) of Chandlers and Clerks and the patron saint of [House Indoril](Lore_House_Indoril.md). Olms was the founder of the [Ordinators](Lore_Ordinators.md), and was responsible for the conceiving and articulating the Inquisitorial principles of testing, ordeal, and forced repentance. Olms was canonized by the Tribunal, and shrines to him could be found in Tribunal temples.

#### Saint Osla, the Saint of Sancre Tor (fl. 2E 852)
[Saint Osla](Lore_Osla.md), also known as the **Saint of Sancre Tor**, was a [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md) [healer](Lore_Restoration.md). She was present at the [Sack of Sancre Tor](Lore_Sack_of_Sancre_Tor.md), an early battle during the [Tiber War](Lore_Tiber_War.md) that took place in [2E 852](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_852) at the city of [Sancre Tor](Lore_Sancre_Tor.md). She would later be canonized as an [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) [saint](Lore_Imperial_Saints.md) by [the Church](Lore_The_Church.md).

In the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), a statue titled "[The Touch of the Healer's Hand](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:The_Touch_of_the_Healer%27s_Hand)" was erected in the town of [Chorrol](Lore_Chorrol.md), just inside the main gate. Known locally as "the fountain", this statue depicts Saint Osla ministering to the fallen at the Sack of Sancre Tor. It was erected in memory of all who died in that great battle. The district near the town's main gate came to be known as Fountain Gate following its construction. At some point, the statue seemingly was indeed a fountain and was surrounded by a pool, but by [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433) it had dried up.

#### The Oracle (fl. 3E 402 - 417)
[The Oracle](Lore_The_Oracle.md) (sometimes **Oracle of Hammerfell**) was a wise woman and [seer](Lore_Sight.md) from [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md) in the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md). Although blind, she was said to be the wisest woman in [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md), and traditionally served as counselor to the monarchs of [Sentinel](Lore_Sentinel_(kingdom).md). She "gave [her] eyes to the gods", but gained the ability to see the future "through their eyes". The Oracle was assisted by a former noble known as the Acolyte.

A book written by the [Scenarist Guild](Lore_Scenarist_Guild.md), *[The Daggerfall Chronicles](Lore_The_Daggerfall_Chronicles.md)*, was found in a shrine to the Oracle after being smuggled out of their guildhall in the [Dragontail Mountains](Lore_Dragontail_Mountains.md).

#### Oreyn Bearclaw (fl. mid 2E)
Son of King [Faume Toad-Eye](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Faume_Toad-Eye), **Oreyn Bearclaw** was a respected [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md)<sup>[[3]](#cite_note-MWMalacath-3)</sup> hunter, and a future leader who was one of [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md)'s most legendary heroes. [Bosmeri](Lore_Bosmer.md) legend claims Oreyn single-handedly defeated Glenhwyfaunva, the witch-serpent of the Elven wood, forever bringing peace to his clan. Oreyn would go on to accomplish numerous other deeds, but eventually lost his life to the [Knahaten Flu](Lore_Knahaten_Flu.md). His [Helm](Lore_Helm_of_Oreyn_Bearclaw.md) stood as a monument of his stature for future generations to remember.<sup>[[4]](#cite_note-TL-4)</sup> [Some](Lore_Malacath.md) claim that many of the deeds Oreyn was made famous for were actually done by his [Orc](Lore_Orc.md) companion, Kharag Gro-Khar.<sup>[[3]](#cite_note-MWMalacath-3)</sup> His known [bloodline](Lore_Oreyn.md) includes both Bosmeri<sup>[[5]](#cite_note-Naryu-5)</sup> and Dunmeri descendants.<sup>[[6]](#cite_note-MWFarvyn-6)</sup><sup>[[7]](#cite_note-OBModryn-7)</sup>

#### King Orgnum (?b - [3E 110](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_110))
[Orgnum](Lore_Orgnum.md) (also spelled as **Orghum**, and known as the "**Immortal Monarch**", "**Sorcerer-King**", "**Serpent-king**", "**Young King**", "**Snake-King**", "**Snake Wizard**", and formally **King Orgnum**, Voice of the Free Maormer People, commander of Twelve-Dozen-and-One mighty ships) is the [Aldmer](Lore_Aldmer.md) ruler of the island [kingdom](Lore_Kingdom_of_Pyandonea.md) of [Pyandonea](Lore_Pyandonea.md). He is said to have a close circle regarding military matters, and the core clans of Pyandonea owing loyalty to him are considered to possess organized and well-disciplined martial forces.

#### Count Ormellius Goldwine (?b - [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433))
[Ormellius Goldwine](Lore_Ormellius_Goldwine.md)<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_Name)</sup> was the Count of [Kvatch](Lore_Kvatch.md) during the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md). He had two sons. Around [3E 432](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_432), family strife over inheritance in Kvatch claimed the lives of both of Goldwine's sons. After peace was restored, Goldwine entered a period of mourning, and as of 3E 432, he had not designated a new heir.

After the assassinations of Emperor [Uriel Septim VII](Lore_Uriel_VII.md) and his heirs on 27 Last Seed, [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433), the Daedric forces of [Mehrunes Dagon](Lore_Mehrunes_Dagon.md) opened Oblivion Gates outside Kvatch and attacked the city, laying waste to it. The Count and his guards managed to close the gates of Kvatch Castle; however, the [Daedra](Lore_Daedra.md) soon overran the castle and killed Goldwine in his quarters. The Hero of Kvatch and some of the surviving Kvatch guards later retook the castle from the Daedra, where they found Goldwine's body and retrieved his [Colovian](Lore_Colovia.md) signet ring.

#### Vateshran Ovra (fl. 2E 582)
**Vateshran** [Ovra](Lore_Ovra.md) was one of the [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md) [historians and storytellers](Lore_Vateshrans.md) active in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), during the period of [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md). She was the keeper of the tale of the meeting between [Rada al-Saran](Lore_Rada_al-Saran.md) and [Red Eagle](Lore_Red_Eagle.md) and the custodian of the sacred cave underneath [Red Eagle Redoubt](Lore_Red_Eagle_Redoubt.md).

#### Kinlord Orlemar Corelanya the Builder (1E ? - [1E 1101](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_1101))
**Kinlord** [Orlemar Corelanya](Lore_Orlemar_Corelanya.md) **the Builder** was the liege of Western [Solstice](Lore_Solstice_(island).md) who led the [Corelanya Clan](Lore_Corelanya_Clan.md) for the majority of the 11th century of the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md). It was during his tenure that most of the Colleges on the isle began to grow in prominence.

#### Orvas Dren (fl. 3E 427)
**Orvas Dren** was the younger brother of Duke [Vedam Dren](Lore_Vedam_Dren.md) of [Ebonheart](Lore_Castle_Ebonheart.md) and lived on a plantation near [Pelagiad](Lore_Pelagiad.md) as the Kingpin of the [Camonna Tong](Lore_Camonna_Tong.md) at the end of [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md).<sup>[[8]](#cite_note-MOD-8)</sup>

#### Dragon Priest Otar the Mad‎‎ (Merethic Era - [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201))
[Otar the Mad](Lore_Otar_the_Mad.md) was a high ranking member of the [Dragon Cult](Lore_Dragon_Cult.md), and a [Dragon Priest](Lore_Dragon_Priest.md) in the [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md). As a Dragon Priest, he was a powerful mage, also able to wield the [Thu'um](Lore_Thu%27um.md) in battle. He also was known as the mad-king of [Ragnvald](Lore_Ragnvald.md). Otar, never truly deceased, had been sealed within Ragnvald's tomb. His slumber was disrupted, and he was reawakened during the [Fourth Era](Lore_Fourth_Era.md).

#### Baron Othrok (fl. 3E 253 - 257)
[Baron Othrok](Lore_Othrok.md) was a Baron of [Dwynnen](Lore_Dwynnen.md), who ruled the barony in the middle of the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md). Although the Baron definitely existed, it is difficult to separate the truth from legends that have arisen around him. Othrok's mother was Nefristia, a High Priestess. He also had two sisters, whose names were Idris and Morena (who is oddly described as a "Dawn Succubus").

One legend deals with the foundation of the barony itself, and how, in [3E 253](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_253), the Baron led an army of animals and men in a victorious battle against the undead armies of Castle Wightmoor at the [Battle of Wightmoor](Lore_Battle_of_Wightmoor.md).<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_Army)</sup> Although it is unclear whether this is literally true or not, the people of the barony celebrate a holiday called Othroktide on the 5th of Sun's Dawn each year in memory of the battle.

The Baron is even more famous as the man who stopped the invasion of the [Camoran Usurper](Lore_Camoran_Usurper.md) in [3E 267](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_267). Although the credit given to the Baron is probably overstated, it was at the [Battle of Firewaves](Lore_Battle_of_Firewaves.md) —not in Dwynnen itself, but nearby—that the combined armies of Dwynnen, [Ykalon](Lore_Ykalon.md), [Phrygias](Lore_Phrygias.md), and [Kambria](Lore_Kambria.md) defeated the Usurper and restored peace to [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md).

#### Emperor Orpheon the Tactician (?b - [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582))
[Orpheon the Tactician](Lore_Orpheon_the_Tactician.md) was an [arcanist](Lore_Arcanists.md) warlord and [battlefield](Lore_Battlefield_Emperors.md) [Emperor](Lore_Cyrodilic_Emperors.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) during the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md). Little is known of Orpheon's early life, but some sources suggest that he had [Dragonborn](Lore_Dragonborn.md) blood in his lineage. After the outbreak of the [Three Banners War](Lore_Three_Banners_War.md), he broke his allegiance to his alliance and recruited despondent deserters from every other army in Tamriel to form the Army of Orpheon. Orpheon's army was supplemented by [dunerippers](Lore_Duneripper.md), [haj motas](Lore_Haj_Mota.md), [Argonian behemoths](Lore_Xal-Krona.md), [Senche-rahts](Lore_Senche-raht.md), and [gryphons](Lore_Gryphon.md).

During the month of [Rain's Hand](Lore_Rain%27s_Hand.md), at some point during the Three Banners War, he led his army in a march from [Cropsford](Lore_Cropsford.md) to [Bruma](Lore_Bruma.md). At Bruma, Orpheon and his army laid siege to the city for a fortnight with the siege engines of his siegemaster, Malthoras. A few days after the siege engines brought down the city walls and the first of the flags appeared asking for a parley, Orpheon sent one of his officers, Flamedancer Ajim-Rei, to burn Bruma, resulting in the city being set alight. The chronicler of this campaign, Lewin Frey, regarded the campaign as the start of Orpheon's reign. Eventually, Orpheon and his army took control of every keep outside the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md), and he proclaimed himself emperor.

Circa [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), Orpheon lost control of the [Ruby Throne](Lore_Ruby_Throne.md). After losing control of the throne, Orpheon learned of an [Elder Scroll](Lore_Elder_Scrolls.md), which he believed contained a prophecy that could end the Three Banners War and legitimize his claim to the Ruby Throne. In 2E 582, he ordered one of his trackers, Garvin, to locate the Elder Scroll, which he tracked to the island of Lep Seclusa. After learning of the Elder Scroll's location, Orpheon and his army invaded Lep Seclusa and assaulted the [moth priests](Lore_Cult_of_the_Ancestor_Moth.md) and Hel Netu monks who defended the scroll. However, before he could secure the Elder Scroll, the [Undaunted](Lore_Undaunted.md) defeated his army and killed him.

#### Chef Orzorga (fl. 2E 582)
**Chef** [Orzorga](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Orzorga) was a legendary [Orc](Lore_Orc.md) cook, and a culinary master of [Orcish cuisine](Lore_Orc_Cuisine.md), and a former Commander of the Irregulars forces of the [Imperial Legion](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md).

#### Ozozzachar (fl. 2E 582)
[Ozozzachar](Lore_Ozozzachar.md) is a [Daedric Titan](Lore_Daedric_Titan.md) in service of [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Prince.md) [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md). He is the favored titan and a general in the Prince's armies. Molag Bal referred to him as his child and son, but the true nature of their relationship remains unclear, as such bonds for Daedra differ from those of mortals.

## References
1. [^](#cite_ref-ENB_1-0) Events of [Ennbjof's Nord Burial](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Morrowind:Ennbjof%27s_Nord_Burial) in *[Morrowind](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Morrowind:Morrowind)*
2. [^](#cite_ref-Ennbjof_2-0) [Ennbjof](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Morrowind:Ennbjof)'s dialogue in *[Morrowind](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Morrowind:Morrowind)*
3. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-MWMalacath_3-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-MWMalacath_3-1)***</sup> [Malacath](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Morrowind:Malacath)'s dialogue in *[Morrowind](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Morrowind:Morrowind)*
4. [^](#cite_ref-TL_4-0) [*Tamrielic Lore*](Lore_Tamrielic_Lore.md) — [Yagrum Bagarn](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Yagrum_Bagarn)
5. [^](#cite_ref-Naryu_5-0) [*Naryu's Journal/Orsinium*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Naryu%27s_Journal_Orsinium) — [Naryu Virian](Lore_Naryu_Virian.md)
6. [^](#cite_ref-MWFarvyn_6-0) [Farvyn Oreyn](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Morrowind:Farvyn_Oreyn)'s dialogue in *[Morrowind](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Morrowind:Morrowind)*
7. [^](#cite_ref-OBModryn_7-0) [Modryn Oreyn](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Modryn_Oreyn)'s dialogue in *[Oblivion](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Oblivion)*
8. [^](#cite_ref-MOD_8-0) [Orvas Dren](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Morrowind:Orvas_Dren) in *[Morrowind](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Morrowind:Morrowind)*