# People P

[Overview](Lore_People.md) | [A](Lore_People_A.md) [B](Lore_People_B.md) [C](Lore_People_C.md) [D](Lore_People_D.md) [E](Lore_People_E.md) [F](Lore_People_F.md) [G](Lore_People_G.md) [H](Lore_People_H.md) [I](Lore_People_I.md) [J](Lore_People_J.md) [K](Lore_People_K.md) [L](Lore_People_L.md) [M](Lore_People_M.md) [N](Lore_People_N.md) [O](Lore_People_O.md) P [Q](Lore_People_Q.md) [R](Lore_People_R.md) [S](Lore_People_S.md) [T](Lore_People_T.md) [U](Lore_People_U.md) [V](Lore_People_V.md) [W](Lore_People_W.md) [X](Lore_People_X.md) [Y](Lore_People_Y.md) [Z](Lore_People_Z.md)
---

#### Paarbahlot (Dawn Era - ?d)
[Paarbahlot](Lore_Paarbahlot.md) is a [dragon](Lore_Dragon.md) whose name means "Ambition-Wrath-Great" in the [Dragon Language](Lore_Dragon_Language.md). He is a green dragon, similar to Bahlokdaan.

Little is known of Paarbahlot's past. In [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), together with [Joorahmaar](Lore_Joorahmaar.md), he ventured to the New Moon Fortress in [Pellitine](Lore_Pellitine.md) to meet with [Laatvulon](Lore_Laatvulon.md). During the meeting, Laatvulon promised power to both Joorahmaar and Paarbahlot, and ordered the recruits of the [Order of the New Moon](Lore_Order_of_the_New_Moon.md) to offer them their power with the use of the [aeonstone](Lore_Aeonstone.md). The ritual was interrupted by the members of [Sai Sahan](Lore_Sai_Sahan.md)'s reformed [Dragonguard](Lore_Dragonguard.md). Following the disruption of the ritual, Paarbahlot, together with Joorahmaar, left the fortress of the New Moon Cult. Although Joorahmaar was later seen assisting Laatvulon in the [Dragonhold](Lore_Dragonhold.md), Paarbahlot's allegiances and status as of then were unknown.

#### Paarthurnax (Dawn Era - ?d)
[Paarthurnax](Lore_Paarthurnax.md), a legendary [dragon](Lore_Dragon.md) whose name means "Ambition Overlord Cruelty" in the [Dragon Language](Lore_Dragon_Language.md), is the leader of the [Greybeards](Lore_Greybeards.md) who resides at the top of the [Throat of the World](Lore_Throat_of_the_World.md). His younger dragon brothers refer to him as "the **Old One**". He was once the lieutenant of Alduin, but rebelled against him and with the help of [Kyne](Lore_Kyne.md) taught humanity how to use the Thu'um. He has since lived out a peaceful life, constantly struggling against the primal need to conquer and dominate, and teaching the Greybeards under [Jurgen Windcaller](Lore_Jurgen_Windcaller.md)'s philosophy of the [Way of the Voice](Lore_Way_of_the_Voice.md). When Alduin reappeared in [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201), he aided the [Last Dragonborn](Lore_Last_Dragonborn.md) in defeating him. In the aftermath, Paarthurnax sought to teach the dragons now scattered across [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) the truth and rightness of the Way of the Voice. Interestingly, Paarthurnax is missing the tip of his right horn.

#### Pale Fingers (?b - [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582))
[Pale Fingers](Lore_Pale_Fingers.md) was a [Falmer](Lore_Falmer.md) from [Blackreach](Lore_Blackreach.md) who served as an agent of the [Bosmer](Lore_Bosmer.md) mage [Deslandra](Lore_Deslandra.md), and the champion of a group of Falmer raiders. Deslandra had made an alliance with the Falmer and several of the other inhabitants of Blackreach in exchange for their little-understood magic. Pale Fingers and the Falmer weren't so much controlled by Deslandra as they were "let loose". Pale Fingers would wreak his particular brand of havoc on the settlements of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) while Deslandra executed her plans underground.

At some point circa [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), these Falmer launched multiple savage raids on cities and settlements in [Eastern Skyrim](Lore_Eastern_Skyrim.md). These raids made the existence of the Falmer, previously assumed by many Nords to have simply been fairy tales, much more well-known. Pale Fingers in particular soon became legendary for his frightening visage and proficiency in city sieges. Whisperings of his presence made people more afraid of exploring Skyrim's caves. While Pale Fingers was participating in a raid on the city of [Windhelm](Lore_Windhelm.md), the Outer Watch became aware of the strange Falmer behavior in Skyrim and came to suspect their former member, Deslandra, was responsible. The Outer Watch would arrive to provide aid to Windhelm, possibly coming into confrontation with Pale Fingers himself. Afterwards, they would learn the truth of Deslandra's alliance. Pale Fingers is believed to have perished protecting Deslandra's base of operations in Skyrim, [Greymoor Keep](Lore_Greymoor_Keep.md).

#### The Pale Man (?b - [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582))
[The Pale Man](Lore_The_Pale_Man.md) was a folklore legend in [Western Skyrim](Lore_Western_Skyrim.md) during the mid- [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md) that was said to snatch people away from the shadows. In truth, these stories were based on the actions of a single figure, a [Falmer](Lore_Falmer.md) responsible for the deaths of several people reaching back decades and perhaps centuries. Witnesses described the Pale Man as gaunt and taller than a [Nord](Lore_Nord.md), with pale skin like a "cave fish" and would move silently. He was also known to have taken trophies from his victims.

A hunter called Aerolf spent thirty years of his life hunting the Pale Man after the death of his brother. It was in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582) that Aerolf and [the Vestige](Lore_The_Vestige.md) tracked the Pale Man to his current lair along the northern coast of [Haafingar](Lore_Haafingar.md) and lured him out before slaying him.

#### Paxti Bittor (?b - 3E 398)
**Paxti Bittor** was the Exalted Summoner and Lion-Lord Invoker Pursuivant of the [Battlespire](Lore_Battlespire.md), and a master of verse incantations.<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-LTM-1)</sup> He was the traitor who opened the portal to allow [Mehrunes Dagon](Lore_Mehrunes_Dagon.md) to enter the Battlespire.<sup>[[2]](#cite_note-LFTBH-2)</sup> He was to escape and inform the Emperor, becoming a hero and receiving his own province. Instead he was betrayed and murdered by the Daedra and Sirran Angada, a leechcrafter retainer of [Jagar Tharn](Lore_Jagar_Tharn.md). His soul was set adrift in the [Soul Cairn](Lore_Soul_Cairn.md), where he became a powerful [wraith](Lore_Wraith.md). His spirit was later destroyed by an [unknown hero](Lore_Hero.md) as an act of revenge.<sup>[[3]](#cite_note-Battlespire-3)</sup>

#### Peakstar (fl. late 3E)
[Peakstar](Lore_Peakstar.md) was an [Ashlander](Lore_Ashlanders.md) woman who washed ashore near [Ald Redaynia](Lore_Ald_Redaynia.md) as a baby. She was found and raised by the [Urshilaku Tribe](Lore_Urshilaku_Tribe.md), and became a figure of legend among the Ashlanders around [3E 397](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_397). Many believed this mysterious "girl child" was the [Nerevarine](Lore_Nerevarine.md). Though she survived [The Blight](Lore_The_Blight.md), she did not master the arts of war, and died while fighting an [Ash Vampire](Lore_Ash_Vampire.md). She became the last known [failed Incarnate](Lore_Failed_Incarnates.md), and her spirit went to the Cavern of the Incarnate with the others. The [Tribunal Temple](Lore_Tribunal_Temple.md) searched for her unsuccessfully for many years, and finally announced she was dead. Ashlanders were under the belief that she had been found and captured at some point. Rumors persisted that she was still alive, as the Temple could not produce a body. Her spirit helped guide the Nerevarine during the latter's campaign against [Dagoth Ur](Lore_Dagoth_Ur.md).

#### Emperor Pelagius Septim I (?b - [3E 41](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_41))
[Pelagius Septim I](Lore_Pelagius_I.md) was the second [emperor](Lore_Cyrodilic_Emperors.md) of the [Third Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md) and [Septim Dynasty](Lore_Septim_Dynasty.md), reigning for less than three years, from [3E 38](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_38) to [3E 41](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_41). He was preceded by his grandfather, [Tiber Septim](Lore_Tiber_Septim.md), and was succeeded by his first cousin once removed, [Kintyra I](Lore_Kintyra_I.md).

#### Emperor Pelagius Septim II (?b - [3E 98](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_98))
[Pelagius Septim II](Lore_Pelagius_II.md) was the sixth emperor of the [Third Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md) and [Septim Dynasty](Lore_Septim_Dynasty.md), reigning for around sixteen years, from [3E 82](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_82) to [3E 98](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_98). When he assumed the throne, the Empire was bankrupt and in debt, so he dismissed every member of the [Elder Council](Lore_Elder_Council.md) and allowed only those willing to pay great sums of money to sit on the council. Although controversial, this policy ultimately achieved Pelagius' goal of fixing the Empire's financial problems, and by the end of his reign, the Empire had returned to prosperity. He was preceded by his father, [Uriel II](Lore_Uriel_II.md), and was succeeded by his son, [Antiochus](Lore_Antiochus.md).

#### Emperor Pelagius Septim III ([3E 119](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_119) - [3E 153](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_153))
[Pelagius Septim III](Lore_Pelagius_III.md) (born **Thoriz Pelagius Septim**) (known as **Pelagius the Mad**) was the twelfth [emperor](Lore_Cyrodilic_Emperors.md) of the [Third Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md) and [Septim Dynasty](Lore_Septim_Dynasty.md), reigning for eight years, from [3E 145](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_145) to [3E 153](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_153). Pelagius III is generally remembered for his eccentricities of behavior and madness that characterized his time as King of [Solitude](Lore_Haafingar.md) and later as Emperor of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). He was preceded by his father, [Magnus](Lore_Magnus_Septim.md), and was succeeded by his wife, [Katariah](Lore_Katariah.md).

#### Emperor Pelagius Septim IV ([3E 314](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_314) - [3E 368](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_368))
[Pelagius Septim IV](Lore_Pelagius_IV.md) was the twentieth [emperor](Lore_Cyrodilic_Emperors.md) of the [Third Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md) and [Septim Dynasty](Lore_Septim_Dynasty.md), reigning for twenty-nine years, from [3E 339](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_339) to [3E 368](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_368). During his reign, he worked to reunite Tamriel, and by the time of his death, Tamriel was stable, prosperous, and closer to unity than it had been since the days of [Uriel I](Lore_Uriel_I.md). Due to his efforts to reunite the Empire, he was considered a strong and capable ruler. He was preceded by his aunt, [Morihatha](Lore_Morihatha.md), and was succeeded by his son, [Uriel VII](Lore_Uriel_VII.md).

#### Prince Pelagius Septim (fl. 3E 390s - 3E 405)
[Pelagius Septim](Lore_Septim_Dynasty.md#cite_note-HEIRSDF-68) was a possible<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_Heirs)</sup> son of [Emperor Uriel Septim VII](Lore_Uriel_VII.md), and therefore a [Dragonborn Prince](Lore_Dragonborn.md) of the [Third Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md).<sup>[[4]](#cite_note-Daggerfall Background Game-4)</sup><sup>[[5]](#cite_note-TBOTD-5)</sup>

#### Vicereeve Pelidil (?b - [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582))
[Pelidil](Lore_Pelidil.md) (also spelled **Peledil**) was an [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md) vicereeve and diplomat that served the [First Aldmeri Dominion](Lore_Aldmeri_Dominion.md#First_Aldmeri_Dominion) in the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), during the early years of Queen [Ayrenn](Lore_Ayrenn.md)'s reign. Pelidil was the advisor of Prince [Naemon](Lore_Naemon.md), Ayrenn's younger brother, but he later became the leader of the [Veiled Heritance](Lore_Veiled_Heritance.md) and stole the [Staff of Magnus](Lore_Staff_of_Magnus.md) following the death of Naemon in [Elden Root](Lore_Elden_Root.md).

#### Saint Pelin the Martyr (?b - [1E 1029](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_1029))
[Saint Pelin the Martyr](Lore_Pelin.md) was a [Breton](Lore_Breton.md) priest of [Stendarr](Lore_Stendarr.md) who was canonized after sacrificing himself in defense of the [Bangkorai Garrison](Lore_Bangkorai_Garrison.md) in [1E 1029](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_1029), which in turn, brought [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md) into the [First Empire](Lore_Alessian_Empire.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). He became a hero to the Bretons of [Evermore](Lore_Evermore.md) and [Bangkorai](Lore_Bangkorai.md), memorialized by the chapel of St. Pelin in Evermore, the [Order of Saint Pelin](Lore_Order_of_Saint_Pelin.md), the knightly order of the Kingdom of Evermore, and the great cemetery called Pelin Graveyard.

#### Pelinal Whitestrake (?b - [1E 243](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_243))
[Pelinal Whitestrake](Lore_Pelinal_Whitestrake.md) was a legendary (and infamous) [Demigod](Lore_Demigod.md) who fought alongside his fellow Demigod [Morihaus](Lore_Morihaus.md) as the champion of Queen [Alessia](Lore_Alessia.md) during the [Alessian Slave Rebellion](Lore_Alessian_Slave_Rebellion.md) of the early [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md). He possessed the [Crusader's Relics](Lore_Crusader%27s_Relics.md), which were given to him by the [Eight Divines](Lore_Eight_Divines.md). Legends say he often had stretches of homicidal madness, during which he slew indiscriminately and took a toll on the very landscape itself.

Pelinal is also supposedly but one name for the "legendary immortal hero" who, according to legend, conquered all of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) by himself in the late [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md). However, he never united the various provinces he conquered under a single banner, as he was known to wander, build up kingdoms, and inevitably abandon them to wander again. Though some doubt has been placed on the idea of all these feats belonging to the same individual.

For more information, see the [main lore article](Lore_Pelinal_Whitestrake.md).

#### Pelladil Direnni (fl. 2E 321)
[Pelladil Direnni](Lore_Pelladil_Direnni.md) was one of the prominent members of the influential [Altmeri](Lore_Altmer.md) clan [Direnni](Lore_Direnni.md), and the [Imperial Battlemage of Tamriel](Lore_Imperial_Battlemage_of_Tamriel.md) in service of the [Potentate](Lore_Akaviri_Potentate.md) [Versidue-Shaie](Lore_Versidue-Shaie.md). He was one of the supporters of the ratification of the [Guild Act](Lore_Guild_Act.md), without which numerous professional organizations, such as the [Mages Guild](Lore_Mages_Guild.md) and [Fighters Guild](Lore_Fighters_Guild.md), would not have been established.

In the early years of the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), by the order of the Potentate, Pelladil Direnni built the [Blackrose Prison](Lore_Blackrose_Prison.md) from the scattered rubble of [Lilmothiit](Lore_Lilmothiit.md) ruins by summoning an army of [Stone Atronachs](Lore_Stone_Atronach.md) in a single day. Validity of the claim that the prison was constructed within such short time frame was considered doubtful by some historians, but the fact that he partook in the construction of the facility is uncontested.

He was a descendant and an ancestor of several other famous figures. Famous witch, [Raven Direnni](Lore_Raven_Direnni.md) was his distant ancestor. He was a great great grandfather of [Jovron Direnni](Lore_Jovron_Direnni.md) and a great great great great grandfather of [Medora Direnni](Lore_Medora_Direnni.md).

Little is known of Pelladil's fate following the fall of the Akaviri Potentate, but it is known that as of the [2E 465](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_465) the position of the Imperial Battlemage of Tamriel was held by [Abnur Tharn](Lore_Abnur_Tharn.md).

#### Peregrine Direnni (fl. 1E 907)
[Peregrine Direnni](Lore_Peregrine_Direnni.md) was one of the prominent members of the influential [Altmeri](Lore_Altmer.md) clan [Direnni](Lore_Direnni.md), and the pioneer conjuration mage. She was a student of Arch-Conjurer [Corvus Direnni](Lore_Corvus_Direnni.md) and was accredited with the summoning of the first [Flame Atronach](Lore_Flame_Atronach.md) [Camel](Lore_Camel.md) in history.

In her youth, she was an apprentice of Corvus Direnni and was mentored by him for the Master Conjurer test. During the test, she received high marks for the summoning of an aforementioned flame atronach camel.

In [1E 907](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_907), she drove entire [Ra Gada](Lore_Ra_Gada.md) flotilla back to [Sentinel](Lore_Sentinel.md) by merging her very will with the waves of the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md).

After years of conjuring, Peregrine Direnni sought a new Daedra to compel to be her mount. She took an immediate liking to the Cold-Flame Atronach, found in the Daedric realm of [Takubar](Lore_Takubar.md). She was known to shape it in the form of a wolf, for an extra flair.

#### Pergan Asuul (?b - 3E 397)
[Pergan Asuul](Lore_Pergan_Asuul.md) was a malevolent [shadowmage](Lore_Shadow_Magic.md) who rose to prominence some time before the [Imperial Simulacrum](Lore_Imperial_Simulacrum.md). He strove to take the place of [Azra Nightwielder](Lore_Azra_Nightwielder.md), the original Shadowmage. He had the ability to read a person from the "taste" of their shadow. He was eventually destroyed in [3E 397](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_397) after three [incarnations](Lore_Reincarnation.md).

During the Imperial Simulacrum, a Shadow of Conflict (or [Umbra' Keth](Lore_Umbra%27_Keth.md)) formed due to the conflict caused by the ongoing [War of the Bend'r-mahk](Lore_War_of_the_Bend%27r-mahk.md). Pergan sought to control the creature, which had taken form deep within the [Crypt of Hearts](Lore_Crypt_of_Hearts.md). In [3E 397](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_397) he invaded the Twilight Temple in [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), driving off the resident [goblin](Lore_Goblin.md) tribe using shadow magic and [zombie](Lore_Zombie.md) minions. However, Pergan was not the only mage interested in gaining control of the Umbra' Keth; [Jagar Tharn](Lore_Jagar_Tharn.md), Imperial Battlemage and pretender to the [Ruby Throne](Lore_Ruby_Throne.md), plotted to use the creature for his own ends.

Pergan placed a magical barrier around a section of [Earthtear Caverns](Lore_Earthtear_Caverns.md) in Hammerfell, guarded by undead minions. The [Soul of Conflict](Lore_Hero.md), a questing hero, stumbled into this barrier; Pergan permitted entry into the guarded section of the cave, and spoke to the hero when his minions were slain. The hero later entered the Twilight Temple on a quest to somehow destroy the Umbra' Keth, and was attacked by Pergan. The shadowmage fell in battle, but as he died, he prophesied that the two would clash twice more.

Pergan rose from the dead, and journeyed to the stronghold of Lakvan, a bandit boss from [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). Tharn attempted to dissuade Lakvan from working with Pergan in an effort to slow his progress towards claiming the Umbra' Keth. As Pergan predicted, the Soul of Conflict came to Lakvan's stronghold, and the two fought once again. Through this continuing conflict, Pergan planned to further strengthen the Umbra' Keth at his own expense. Before dying, Pergan accidentally revealed that the anonymous shadowmage who had been aiding the hero was, in fact, Azra Nightwielder. Upon hearing his name, Azra regained his memories.

In his final incarnation, Pergan entered the Crypt of Hearts and awaited the arrival of the Soul of Conflict. The two fought for the final time, but Pergan succeeded in his plan: by repeatedly battling, he had strengthened the Umbra' Keth. Despite this, the hero used the power of the seven [Star Teeth](Lore_Star_Teeth.md) to destroy the monster.

#### Phalevon Vero (fl. before 1E 2802)
[Phalevon Vero](Lore_Phalevon_Vero.md) (also known as **Phalevon the Magnificent**) was a legendary [Nibenese](Lore_Imperial.md) [Minotaur](Lore_Minotaur.md) -hunter from the [Blackwood](Lore_Blackwood.md) region of southern [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). After Hruum the Red, a minotaur, slew his brother, Phalevon cleared every minotaur lair in the region. He was buried in [Undertow Cavern](Lore_Undertow_Cavern.md), outside of [Leyawiin](Lore_Leyawiin.md)'s western gate.

#### Philea Nielus (fl. 3E 433)
[Philea Nielus](Lore_Philea_Nielus.md) was the Imperial Ambassador serving within [Vvardenfell District](Lore_Vvardenfell.md) circa [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433).

#### Phrastus of Elinhir (fl. 2E 582)
[Phrastus of Elinhir](Lore_Phrastus.md), also known as **Phrastus the Scholar**, was an influential [Nibenese](Lore_Nibenese.md) [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) scholar, prolific writer and a mage active during the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md) of the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), known for his numerous specialties and his rivalry with [Cinnabar of Taneth](Lore_Cinnabar_of_Taneth.md). They were known to often reference each other in their works and question the academic credibility of one another. He resided in [Elinhir](Lore_Elinhir.md) and was once a member of the [University of Gwylim](Lore_University_of_Gwylim.md).

#### Phrastus (primate) (fl. [2E 540](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_540))
**Phrastus** served as the Primate of [Akatosh](Lore_Akatosh.md) and the leader of the [Akatosh Chantry](Lore_Akatosh_Chantry.md) in [Kvatch](Lore_Kvatch.md) during the mid- [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). The only known information about Phrastus occurred in [2E 540](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_540), when the [Order of the Hour](Lore_Order_of_the_Hour.md) saved him from an assassination attempt.<sup>[[6]](#cite_note-OOTH-6)</sup> His primacy seemingly ended not long after this, as [Jonas Coventine](Lore_Jonas_Coventine.md) had become the Primate of Akatosh by approximately [2E 542](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_542).<sup>[[7]](#cite_note-TP2-7)</sup>

#### Baron Phylgeon Montclair (2E 532 - ?d)
[Phylgeon Montclair](Lore_Phylgeon_Montclair.md) was a [Breton](Lore_Breton.md) nobleman who reigned as the thirty-eighth Baron of [House Montclair](Lore_House_Montclair.md) during the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). He was a son of [King Hurlburt](Lore_Hurlburt.md) of [Shornhelm](Lore_Shornhelm.md) and Countess [Iphilia Montclair](Lore_Iphilia_Montclair.md). His mother, Iphilia, died in [2E 544](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_544), when he was twelve years old, making him the baron of House Montclair. Two years later, in [2E 546](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_546), his father died, which instigated a conflict between Phylgeon and his older illegitimate half-brother [Ranser](Lore_Ranser.md) over Shornhelm's throne.

Phylgeon's advisors contended that he, as the legitimate son, was the proper heir to the throne. Although Phylgeon was the legitimate heir to the throne, [Houses Branquette](Lore_House_Branquette.md) and [Tamrith](Lore_House_Tamrith.md) supported Ranser despite him being Hurlburt's illegitimate son. The fourteen-year-old Phylgeon was descended from [House Montclair](Lore_House_Montclair.md), and his claim was supported by the codicil to the "Bretonnick Natalitie", which declared "Howse Mount Clayre" the royal house of Shornhelm. However, the codicil was missing when the Council of the North met to discuss the two claimants. Prince Ranser presented a long-lost [Direnni](Lore_Direnni.md) decree that named House Branquette their Breton Royal Delegates in [Rivenspire](Lore_Rivenspire.md), winning the crown by the vote of the council. The vote of the council was a narrow victory for Ranser. Some of Phylgeon's advisors urged him to fight for the crown, but the young prince declined, preferring to remain simply the Baron of Montclair.

According to Phylgeon's son, his humility was one of his defining traits, which led to the tragic events of [Ranser's War](Lore_Ranser%27s_War.md) in [2E 566](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_566). Phylgeon was uncertain of the rightness of Ranser's cause and offered to both Kings Ranser and [Emeric](Lore_Emeric.md) to serve as a peace envoy between the two sides. Emeric's reply has been lost to history, but it is known that Ranser refused. After that, Phylgeon deferred to his older brother and provided the knights of House Montclair to fight in Ranser's army. House Montclair did not surrender to [Wayrest](Lore_Wayrest_(kingdom).md)'s alliance until just before the Battle of [Markwasten Moor](Lore_Markwasten_Moor.md), the second to last battle of Ranser's War, in [2E 567](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_567).

After the death of Ranser in 2E 567, Rivenspire fell into chaos. With no king to rule the region, Rivenspire was governed by the triumvirate Council of the North, composed of the heads of Houses Tamrith, Montclair, and [Dorell](Lore_House_Dorell.md). Although Phylgeon had a strong claim to the throne of Shornhelm, he never became king.

#### Pieron Desant (fl. 2E 582 and earlier)
[Pieron Desant](Lore_Pieron_Desant.md), also known as **The First Gleaner** was a [Breton](Lore_Breton.md) thief and planar traveler. He was the founder of the [Gleaners of Aurbis](Lore_Gleaners_of_Aurbis.md), the group composed of mortal and daedric extraplanar travelers who act as thieves and spies. He is known for his mysterious longevity and stealth abilities a few can match. Pieron is considered the greatest thief among the Gleaners ever to prowl the Bazaar of the Fargrave.

#### Pjofr Ice-Blade (fl. [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201))
**Pjofr Ice-Blade** inherited the Gray Cowl and took on the mantle of the Gray Fox at an unknown time. Instead of becoming the head of the Ice-Blade clan, he left it, pursuing his own interests out of greed.<sup>[[8]](#cite_note-SJ-8)</sup> By [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201), conspirators succeeded in making the death of Pjofr's sister seem like it was caused by an illness. Her son, Smaref, was left an orphan and last of the Ice-Blades. The scoundrels obtained the boy's consent to transfer his family's lands over to them, then sent him to [Riften](Lore_Riften.md) before he became old enough to suspect their motives.<sup>[[9]](#cite_note-LTG-9)</sup> After hearing of the passing of his sister, Pjofr learned of Smaref's adoption by Bolli, the owner of the Riften Fishery. When Pjofr attended dinner at their household, he saw that Bolli was caring, while his wife Nivenor wanted nothing to do with the child. Nivenor revealed that her husband was asked by Thane Erikur of [Solitude](Lore_Solitude.md) to take in the orphan as a charity case.<sup>[[10]](#cite_note-NJ-10)</sup>

Pjofr faked the death of the Gray Fox. The [Last Dragonborn](Lore_Last_Dragonborn.md) investigated the unmarked grave and took up the quest to gain the Gray Cowl. Following a series of instructions, the Dragonborn swapped important documents with forgeries, ruining the conspirators claims to the Ice-Blade clan's lands. Finally, the Dragonborn delved into the Nordic ruin of Silverdrift Lair, and retrieved the ancestral Sword of Clan Ice–Blade. With the tasks done, the Dragonborn returned to the Gray Fox's grave, and Pjofr came in person to pass on the Gray Fox's mantle.<sup>[[11]](#cite_note-11)</sup>

#### Saint Plenty (fl. before [3E 427](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_427))
**Saint** [Plenty](Lore_Plenty.md) was an [Imperial saint](Lore_Imperial_Saints.md) known to the [Imperial Legion](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md). They are the namesake of [Saint Plenty's Day](Lore_Holidays.md#Saint_Plenty.27s_Day), a holiday celebrated by the Imperial Legion, though little else is known about its traditions or significance. Little is known about Plenty, except that they were already known by [3E 427](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_427). [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) members of the Imperial Legion stationed at [Fort Frostmoth](Lore_Fort_Frostmoth.md) on the isle of [Solstheim](Lore_Solstheim.md) during the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md) were known for the saying, "Every day is Saint Plenty's Day in the Legion."

It was believed that saints were granted [second sight](Lore_Sight.md) by the [Divines](Lore_Divines.md), allowing them to perceive the world in a way that differs from other mortals. Many of the Imperial Saints were typically interred along the [Green Emperor Way](Lore_Green_Emperor_Way.md) among other prominent figures of [the Empire](Lore_The_Empire.md). However, it is unknown whether Plenty possessed the sight or was ever buried there.

#### Queen Potema ([3E 67](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_67) - [3E 137](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_137))
Queen [Potema](Lore_Potema.md), the "Wolf Queen of [Solitude](Lore_Solitude.md)", the daughter of the Emperor [Pelagius Septim II](Lore_Pelagius_Septim_II.md), wife of King [Mantiarco](Lore_Mantiarco.md), aunt of the Empress [Kintyra II](Lore_Kintyra_II.md), mother of Emperor [Uriel III](Lore_Uriel_Septim_III.md), and sister of the Emperors [Antiochus](Lore_Antiochus.md), [Cephorus I](Lore_Cephorus_I.md) and [Magnus](Lore_Magnus_Septim.md), is best known for her role in the [War of the Red Diamond](Lore_War_of_the_Red_Diamond.md). In [3E 120](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_120), she launched a rebellion, and overthrew her niece Empress Kintyra II the following year so that her son could become Emperor Uriel Septim III. Although the war ended in [3E 127](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_127), it was another ten years, capped off by a month-long siege at her castle in Solitude, before Potema herself was defeated. She has been described as "unambiguously evil", and is remembered as one of the most dangerous necromancers in the history of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). She was a formidable mage and a skilled necromancer. As a [Dragonborn](Lore_Dragonborn.md), she also possessed the ability to wield the [Thu'um](Lore_Thu%27um.md).For more information, see the [lore article](Lore_Potema.md).

#### The Precursor (fl. late 3E)
The [Precursor](Lore_Precursor.md) was a [Bosmer](Lore_Bosmer.md) prophet who became active during the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md). The Precursor preached that the old Forest God [Y'ffre](Lore_Y%27ffre.md) was returning with new gifts for his people. His rise was concurrent with other impactful [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md) events—the first ever complete rooting of the walking tree city [Falinesti](Lore_Falinesti.md), and the first [Wild Hunt](Lore_Wild_Hunt.md) in several centuries—although it is unknown if these were unrelated or all a sign of a large shift to come for the Bosmer people.

#### The Preserver of Galen (fl. 2E 582)
The [Preserver of Galen](Lore_Preserver_of_Galen.md) is a powerful colossal [Spriggan](Lore_Spriggan.md). It was an ancient [Nature Spirit](Lore_Nature_Spirit.md) [summoned](Lore_Conjuration.md) by the [Druids](Lore_Druids.md) in the ancient times to safeguard the isle of [Galen](Lore_Galen.md).

#### Abbot-General Priscus Mactator (fl. 1E 2305)
[Priscus Mactator](Lore_Priscus_Mactator.md) was an Abbot-General within the military branch of the [Alessian Order](Lore_Alessian_Order.md).

He led the Legions of Piety and Grace in an attempt to bring the province of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md) back into the [First Empire](Lore_First_Empire.md) in [1E 2305](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_2305). Under his leadership, the fanatical legions marched through the [Fallen Wastes](Lore_Fallen_Wastes.md) towards the garrison at the [Bangkorai Pass](Lore_Bangkorai_Pass.md), which had always been the first line of defense for the Breton Kingdoms against invaders from the east. However, the garrison proved impenetrable, and after a five-month siege, Mactator was forced to admit defeat and retreat back to [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) in disgrace.

#### Kinlady Psynande Corelanya the Voyager (1E ? - [1E 1165](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_1165))
**Kinlady** [Psynande Corelanya](Lore_Psynande_Corelanya.md) **the Voyager** was the ruler of [Clan Corelanya](Lore_Clan_Corelanya.md) and the city of [Sunport](Lore_Sunport.md) during the first half of the 12th century of the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md). She earned renown for her ventures into the eastern seas and her passion for exploration.

#### Pulasia Tharn (fl. mid 2E)
[Pulasia Tharn](Lore_Pulasia_Tharn.md) was an [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) member of the royal [House Tharn](Lore_Tharn.md) of [Cheydinhal](Lore_Cheydinhal.md), through her marriage to the Chancellor of the [Elder Council](Lore_Elder_Council.md) [Abnur Tharn](Lore_Abnur_Tharn.md). She was his seventh wife, and was the mother of his sixteenth daughter, [Clivia Tharn](Lore_Clivia_Tharn.md). Her daughter became Empress consort married to the two [Emperors](Lore_Tamrielic_Emperors.md) of the [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md): [Leovic](Lore_Leovic.md) of the [Longhouse Dynasty](Lore_Longhouse_Emperors.md) and [Varen Aquilarios](Lore_Varen_Aquilarios.md), the leader of the [Colovian Revolt](Lore_Colovian_Revolt.md), who overthrew the dynasty of Leovic. Following the disappearance of Varen, her daughter Clivia became Empress Regent. The fate of Pulasia following the events of the [Planemeld](Lore_Planemeld.md) is unknown.

## Notes
- | [^1](#note_Heirs) | In *[Daggerfall](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Daggerfall:Daggerfall)*, the player character is given a personal [Background History](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Daggerfall:Background_History#Notes) which they may read in their character menu, determined by their chosen class. In certain scenarios—such as those for the Bard or Rogue—the player character encounters a male heir of Emperor Uriel VII. There are 6 possible names assigned to this prince, chosen from a unique pre-designed list specifically created for this single use in the Background History: Pelagius, Cephorus, Uriel, Cassynder, Voragiel, and Trabbatus (in that order). In the Ranger background, the prince you met mentions that he has brothers that are also on the run; the plural use of "brothers" indicates the existence of multiple other princes. The number of possible names could logically indicate 6 in total. These figures precede the later introduction of Geldall, Enman, and Ebel, the Emperor's sons coined in *[Morrowind](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Morrowind:Morrowind)*. Ultimately, no information on the other names for princes given in *[Daggerfall](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Daggerfall:Daggerfall)* is available, as they are not referenced in subsequent games.<sup>[[12]](#cite_note-Histpry DF-12)</sup> |
| --- | --- |

## References
1. [^](#cite_ref-LTM_1-0) [*Letter to Mactana*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Battlespire:Letter_to_Mactana)
2. [^](#cite_ref-LFTBH_2-0) [*Letters for the Battlespire Hero*](Lore_Letters_for_the_Battlespire_Hero.md) — Vatasha Trenelle or Josian Kaid
3. [^](#cite_ref-Battlespire_3-0) Events of *[Battlespire](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Battlespire:Battlespire)*
4. [^](#cite_ref-Daggerfall Background Game_4-0) [*Daggerfall Player Character Background History*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Daggerfall:Background_History#Imported_Character)
5. [^](#cite_ref-TBOTD_5-0) [*The Book of the Dragonborn*](Lore_The_Book_of_the_Dragonborn.md) — Prior [Emelene Madrine](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Emelene_Madrine)
6. [^](#cite_ref-OOTH_6-0) [*Order of the Hour*](Lore_Order_of_the_Hour_(book).md) — [Exordor Vasidius](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Exordor_Vasidius), Sermonizer, Priest of [Akatosh](Lore_Akatosh.md)
7. [^](#cite_ref-TP2_7-0) [*The Primate: Finding Faith*](Lore_The_Primate__Finding_Faith.md) — [Midara Salviticus](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Midara_Salviticus), Historian, [University of Gwylim](Lore_University_of_Gwylim.md)
8. [^](#cite_ref-SJ_8-0) [*Stranger's Journal*](Skyrim_Stranger%27s_Journal.md) — [Pjofr Ice-Blade](Skyrim_Pjofr_Ice-Blade.md)
9. [^](#cite_ref-LTG_9-0) [*Letter to Gisli*](Skyrim_Letter_to_Gisli.md) — M
10. [^](#cite_ref-NJ_10-0) [*Nivenor's Journal*](Skyrim_Nivenor%27s_Journal.md) — [Nivenor](Skyrim_Nivenor.md)
11. [^](#cite_ref-11) [The Gray Cowl Returns!](Skyrim_The_Gray_Cowl_Returns!.md) [Creation](Skyrim_Creation_Club.md) for [Skyrim](Skyrim_Skyrim.md) [Special Edition](Skyrim_Special_Edition.md)
12. [^](#cite_ref-Histpry DF_12-0) *[Player Background History](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Daggerfall:Background_History)* in *[Daggerfall](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Daggerfall:Daggerfall)*