# Remanada

| Book Information | |
| --- | --- |
| Writer | [Michael Kirkbride](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/General:Michael_Kirkbride) |
| Seen In: | - [Oblivion](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Remanada) <br> - [Skyrim](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Skyrim:Remanada) <br> - [Elder Scrolls Online](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:The_Remanada,_Chapter_One) |

Remanada *Fragmented, mythical recounting of the conception of Reman and the return of the Chim-el Adabal with the people of Tamriel*
---
**Chapter 1: SANCRE TOR AND THE BIRTH OF REMAN**

And in those days [the empire](Lore_Alessian_Empire.md) of the [Cyrodiils](Lore_Imperial.md) was dead, save in memory only, for through [war](Lore_War_of_Righteousness.md) and [slug famine](Lore_Thrassian_Plague.md) and iniquitous rulers, the west split from the east and [Colovia](Lore_Colovia.md)'s estrangement lasted some four hundreds of years. And the earth was sick with this sundering. Once-worthy western kings, of [Anvil](Lore_Anvil.md) and Sarchal, of [Falkreath](Lore_Falkreath.md) and [Delodiil](Lore_Delodiil.md), became through pride and habit as like thief-barons and forgot covenant. In the [heartland](Lore_Heartlands.md) things were no better, as arcanists and false moth-princes lay in drugged stupor or the studies of vileness and no one sat on the [Throne](Lore_Ruby_Throne.md) in dusted generations. [Snakes](Lore_Tsaesci_(race).md) and the warnings of snakes went unheeded and the land bled with ghosts and deepset holes unto [cold harbors](Lore_Coldharbour.md). It is said that even the [Chim-el Adabal](Lore_Chim-el_Adabal.md), the amulet of the kings of glory, had been lost and its people saw no reason to find it.

And it was in this darkness that King [Hrol](Lore_Hrol.md) set out from the lands beyond lost [Twil](Lore_Twil.md) with a sortie of questing [knights](Lore_Knights.md) numbered eighteen less one, all of them western sons and daughters. For Hrol had seen in his visions the [snakes to come](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_2703) and sought to heal all the borders of his forebears. And to this host appeared at last a spirit who resembled none other than [El-Estia](Lore_Alessia.md), queen of ancient times, who bore in her left hand the [dragonfire](Lore_Dragonfires.md) of the [aka-tosh](Lore_Akatosh.md) and in her right hand the [jewels of the covenant](Lore_Amulet_of_Kings.md) and on her breast a wound that spilt void onto her mangled feet. And seeing El-Estia and Chim-el Adabal, Hrol and his knights wailed and set to their knees and prayed for all things to become as right. Unto them the spirit said, I am the healer of all men and the mother of [dragons](Lore_Dragon.md), but as you have run so many times from me so shall I run until you learn my pain, which renders you and all this land dead.

And the spirit fled from them, and they split among hills and forests to find her, all grieving that they had become a villainous people. Hrol and his shieldthane were the only ones to find her, and the king spoke to her, saying, I love you sweet Aless, sweet wife of [Shor](Lore_Shor.md) and of [Auri-el](Lore_Auriel.md) and the [Sacred Bull](Lore_Morihaus.md), and would render this land alive again, not through pain but through a return to the dragon-fires of covenant, to join east and west and throw off all ruin. And the shieldthane bore witness to the spirit opening naked to his king, carving on a nearby rock the words AND HROL DID LOVE UNTO A HILLOCK before dying in the sight of their union.

When the fifteen other knights found King Hrol, they saw him dead after his labors against a mound of mud. And they parted each in their way, and some went mad, and the two that returned to their homeland beyond Twil would say nothing of Hrol, and acted ashamed for him.

But after nine months that mound of mud became as a small mountain, and there were whispers among the shepherds and bulls. A small community of believers gathered around that growing hill during the days of its first churning, and they were the first to name it the Golden Hill, [Sancre Tor](Lore_Sancre_Tor.md). And it was the shepherdess [Sed-Yenna](Lore_Sed-Yenna.md) who dared climb the hill when she heard his first cry, and at its peak she saw what it had yielded, an infant she named [Reman](Lore_Reman.md), which is "Light of Man."

And in the child's forehead was the Chim-el Adabal, alive with the dragon-fires of yore and divine promise, and none dared obstruct Sed-Yenna when she climbed the steps of [White-Gold Tower](Lore_White-Gold_Tower.md) to place the babe Reman on his Throne, where he spoke as an adult, saying I AM CYRODIIL COME.

**Chapter 2: THE CHEVALIER RENALD, BLADE OF THE PIG**

And in the days of [interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md), the Chim-el Adabal was lost again amid the petty wars of gone-heathen kings. West and east knew no union then and all the lands outside of them saw Cyrodiil as a nest of snakemen and snakes. And for four more hundreds of years did the seat of Reman stay sundered, with only the machinations of a group of loyal knights keeping all its borders from throwing wide.

These loyal knights did go by no name then, but were known by their [eastern](Lore_Akavir.md) swords and painted eyes, and it was whispered that they were descended from the [bodyguard](Lore_Blades.md) of old Reman. One of their number, called the [Chevalier Renald](Lore_Chevalier_Renald.md), discovered the prowess of [Cuhlecain](Lore_Cuhlecain.md) and then supported him towards the throne. Only later would it be revealed that Renald did this thing to come closer to [Talos](Lore_Talos.md), anon Stormcrown, the glorious yet-emperor [Tiber Septim](Lore_Tiber_Septim.md); only later still, that he was under instruction by a pig.

Long glory was wife to the all the knights of the dragon-banner, who knew no other and were brothers before beyond many seas and now were brothers under the law named the blade-surrender of [Pale Pass](Lore_Pale_Pass.md). And having vampire blood these brother-knights lived for ages through and past Reman and then kept guard over his ward, the coiled king, [Versidue-Shaie](Lore_Versidue-Shaie.md). The snake-captain [Vershu](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Vershu) became Renald became the protector of the northern west when the black dart was hooked into [Savirien-Chorak](Lore_Savirien-Chorak.md).

*Here torn pages indicate that the rest of this ancient book has been lost.*