# Factions Z

[Overview](Lore_Factions.md) | [A](Lore_Factions_A.md) [B](Lore_Factions_B.md) [C](Lore_Factions_C.md) [D](Lore_Factions_D.md) [E](Lore_Factions_E.md) [F](Lore_Factions_F.md) [G](Lore_Factions_G.md) [H](Lore_Factions_H.md) [I](Lore_Factions_I.md) [J](Lore_Factions_J.md) [K](Lore_Factions_K.md) [L](Lore_Factions_L.md) [M](Lore_Factions_M.md) [N](Lore_Factions_N.md) [O](Lore_Factions_O.md) [P](Lore_Factions_P.md) [Q](Lore_Factions_Q.md) [R](Lore_Factions_R.md) [S](Lore_Factions_S.md) [T](Lore_Factions_T.md) [U](Lore_Factions_U.md) [V](Lore_Factions_V.md) [W](Lore_Factions_W.md) [X](Lore_Factions_X.md) Y Z
---

## Zainab
The [Zainab Tribe](Lore_Zainab_Tribe.md) is one of the four distinct tribes of the [Ashlanders](Lore_Ashlander.md) of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md), in the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). The Zainab is the most populated tribe in all of Vvardenfell, and are surprisingly more open to Outlanders and House [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md), though they can be greedy and arrogant in their business. They are merchants by heart and collect a wide variety of goods to trade among each other and their neighbors. The Zainab is a mix of open to change and retaining Ashlander customs. They commonly live in the **Zainab Camp**, in the hills of the [Grazelands](Lore_Grazelands.md), on the outskirts of the [Telvanni](Lore_Telvanni.md) town of [Vos](Lore_Vos.md), and near the ruins of [Nchuleft](Lore_Nchuleft.md). Here they reap the wealth across the lands for trade and harvesting. The Zainab Tribe are known to collect the royal wax of a [Kwama Queen](Lore_Kwama_Queen.md), specifically when it sometimes hardens into a jewel-like pit. It is used in various crafts and religious ceremonies.

## Zealots
The [Zealots](Lore_Zealots.md) of [Shivering Isles](Lore_Shivering_Isles.md) are a group of outcast mortals found in [Dementia](Lore_Dementia_(place).md). They follow the Demented teachings of [Arden-Sul](Lore_Arden-Sul.md) to a fault, believing him to be a mortal aspect of [Sheogorath](Lore_Sheogorath.md). They believe Sheogorath himself to be a living god, and go to extreme and painful lengths to prove their devotion to him. The Zealots revel in violence, and attack all outsiders unless they wear their robes. Robes are brought to settlements in Dementia as a way for citizens to join the Zealots, although converts are often killed if they are not true of heart or if they fail the painful initiation rituals. The Zealots are noted for their rituals involving the summoning and binding of [Flesh Atronachs](Lore_Flesh_Atronach.md). They are also often found in the company of [Shambles](Lore_Shambles.md).

Zealots have a particular vendetta against the [Heretics](Lore_Heretics.md), their [Manic](Lore_Mania.md) counterparts. The highest ranks of the Zealots were said to be "ascended".