# Gods S

[Overview](Lore_Gods.md) | [A](Lore_Gods_A.md) [B](Lore_Gods_B.md) [C](Lore_Gods_C.md) [D](Lore_Gods_D.md) [E](Lore_Gods_E.md) [F](Lore_Gods_F.md) [G](Lore_Gods_G.md) [H](Lore_Gods_H.md) [I](Lore_Gods_I.md) [J](Lore_Gods_J.md) [K](Lore_Gods_K.md) [L](Lore_Gods_L.md) [M](Lore_Gods_M.md) [N](Lore_Gods_N.md) [O](Lore_Gods_O.md) [P](Lore_Gods_P.md) [Q](Lore_Gods_Q.md) [R](Lore_Gods_R.md) S [T](Lore_Gods_T.md) [U](Lore_Gods_U.md) [V](Lore_Gods_V.md) [W](Lore_Gods_W.md) [X](Lore_Gods_X.md) [Y](Lore_Gods_Y.md) [Z](Lore_Gods_Z.md)
---

#### Sai, God of Luck
[Sai](Lore_Sai.md) is the **God of Luck**. Those familiar with him call him by his nickname, **Lucky**. He was born a mortal and had the talent to spread luck to others, but not to himself. He became a soldier, but he was killed in his first battle just as it was won. [Ebonarm](Lore_Ebonarm.md) appeared to him, and offered him immortality if he agreed to spread his luck around. He said the gods were overworked seeing to events, and thought that Sai's inborn talent would balance things out. He readily agreed, and he was told that he could keep his body for a time before it began to fade.

#### Sanguine
[Sanguine](Lore_Sanguine.md), known to his worshippers as the **Lord of Revelry**, **Blood-Made-Pleasure**, and he **who tastes the Shaven Fruit**, is a [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Princes.md) whose sphere is hedonistic revelry, debauchery, wild orgies, and passionate indulgences of darker natures. As the **Daedra Prince of Lust, Perversity, and Unnatural Sexual Relations**, anything in excess is his motto. Sanguine is depicted as a portly yet muscular crimson-skinned man with a demonic head with horns, tusks, usually with a [bottle](Lore_Alcohol.md) in his hand or a [whore](Lore_Prostitution.md) under his thumb. He is thought to control thousands of small realms called the [Myriad Realms of Revelry](Lore_Revelry.md).

For more information, see the [main lore article](Lore_Sanguine.md).

#### Satakal, the Worldskin, Yokudan God of Everything
[Satakal](Lore_Satakal.md) **the Worldskin**, also called the **First Serpent**, **Serpent God**, and the **World-Snake**, is the [Yokudan](Lore_Yokudan.md) god of everything, and a fusion of the concepts of [Anu](Lore_Anu.md) and [Padomay](Lore_Padomay.md) ([Satak](Lore_Satak.md) and [Akel](Lore_Akel.md)), or the habitable universe resulting of their interaction, also called the [Aurbis](Lore_Aurbis.md) or "The Gray Maybe". They can be considered analogous to [Akatosh](Lore_Akatosh.md) in a way, being the first being "born" from the interplay of the original forces. Driven by hunger to eat one world to begin another, Satakal also has much in common with the [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) [Alduin](Lore_Alduin.md). In Yokudan mythology, Satakal has done (and still does) this many times over, a cycle which prompted the birth of spirits that could survive the transition, notably [Ruptga](Lore_Ruptga.md), the first who learned how to do so. These spirits ultimately became the Yokudan pantheon.

Satakal is a popular god of the [Alik'r](Lore_Alik%27r.md) nomads. Redguard creation myth holds that they are doomed to mortality because they are very far away from the real world of Satakal, and the safe haven of the [Far Shores](Lore_Far_Shores.md) is too far away for them to jump from the mortal world.

#### Secunda
[Secunda](Lore_Secunda.md), also known as **Jone**, **Shandar's Sorrow** (also spelled **Stendarr's Sorrow**) and **Zennrili** in [Ta'agra](Lore_Ta%27agra.md), is the lesser of [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md)'s two [moons](Lore_Moons.md) and acknowledged as one of the attendant spirits of the mortal plane. As such, is both temporal and subject to the bounds of mortality. As with all astral bodies seen from Nirn, the [moons](Lore_Moons.md) and [dominion planets](Lore_Planets.md), Secunda is said to actually be a separate [plane](Lore_Planes_of_Existence.md) in its own right, infinite in size and mass, with its appearance as a sphere being only a visual phenomenon caused by mortal mental stress. Secunda has long since perished and its death has led to mortals perceiving its previously pure white and featureless sphere as having its current texture and grayish hue, the moon's "skin" withering away. According to some accounts, the mortal realms were formed by the Aedra out of [Creatia](Lore_Chaotic_Creatia.md).

The [Jonelight Path](Lore_Jonelight_Path.md), a realm described as the place between places where the "liminal forces that bind each here to every there" can be accessed and from where any destination can be reached by those who can walk the path once the point where the "liminal of here touches the liminal of there" is reached , is named for the smaller of Nirn's two moons and is described as full of [stars](Lore_Stars.md) and moonlight

#### Sep, the Second Serpent
[Sep](Lore_Sep.md), also known as the **Second Serpent**, is the [Yokudan](Lore_Yokuda.md) and [Redguard](Lore_Redguard.md) equivalent of [Lorkhan](Lore_Lorkhan.md). He is said to have been created by [Ruptga](Lore_Ruptga.md).

#### Sethiete
**Sethiete** (also called **Seth**)<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-ARGideon-1)</sup> was a deity that was widely worshipped across [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) during the [Imperial Simulacrum](Lore_Imperial_Simulacrum.md) in the late- [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md). The nature of Sethiete is unknown, but what is known is his influence back when he was prominent. His place of worship was known as the [Temple of Sethiete](Lore_Temple_of_Sethiete.md), and one of his temples is a landmark in the city of [Camlorn](Lore_Camlorn.md). It anchors the main street with the Royal Palace.<sup>[[2]](#cite_note-MOT1-2)</sup> Seth's followers held vast control over the city, [Gideon](Lore_Gideon.md) during the Simulacrum.<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-ARGideon-1)</sup> There is the exclamation, *"By Sethiete"*, which is used in the Kingdom of Camlorn.<sup>[[3]](#cite_note-MOT2-3)</sup> Sometime prior to the Imperial Simulacrum, [Jagar Tharn](Lore_Jagar_Tharn.md) was a follower of Sethiete and a member of the temple in Camlorn, sometime four years before he impersonated Emperor [Uriel Septim VII](Lore_Uriel_Septim_VII.md) and started the decade of conflict.<sup>[[4]](#cite_note-MOT4-4)</sup>

#### Shagrath, Goddess of Spiders
[Shagrath](Lore_Shagrath.md) is the God of Spiders, an obscure goddess whose [High Priestess](Lore_Selene.md) once threatened all of [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md) with an army of spiders. She is associated with [the Green](Lore_The_Green.md) and the birth of the world, and [spiders](Lore_Spider.md) are her blessed creatures. [Vanus Galerion](Lore_Vanus_Galerion.md) believed that she was responsible for showing the changeling [Selene](Lore_Selene.md) how to take form. Whether Shagrath was lost to time or still exists in some form remains a mystery, though her magic boons remain effective even in modern times. Few ever escape Shagrath's web once ensnared, marked by her whispersilk threads. Those who do bear a webbed brand on their faces. Shagrath marks those of interest with the silver strands adorning their bodies. They can choose to follow her intricate designs or weave their own paths; Shagrath prefers the latter.

#### Sheggorath, the Mind God
**Sheggorath**, known as **the Skooma Cat**<sup>[[5]](#cite_note-WOCMA-5)</sup> and **the Mind God**, is a [Khajiiti](Lore_Khajiit.md) deity whose sphere is the Mortal Mind and its stability.<sup>[[6]](#cite_note-TAS-6)</sup> Sheggorath tests the Khajiit by making them doubt the truth of their own thoughts, beliefs, and actions. He must be faced and overcome before one can visit [Hermorah](Lore_Hermorah.md)'s library. There is a belief among some Khajiit tribes that Sheggorath is dead, and that he has been replaced by "something Other".<sup>[[6]](#cite_note-TAS-6)</sup>

#### Sheogorath, the Mad God
[Sheogorath](Lore_Sheogorath.md) is the [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Princes.md) of [Madness](Lore_Madness_(disease).md), **Fourth Corner of the [House of Troubles](Lore_House_of_Troubles.md)**, the **Skooma Cat**, **Lord of the Never-There**, **Raver**, **Comforter of Men**, **The Trickster**,and **Sovereign of [Shivering Isles](Lore_Shivering_Isles.md)**, **Lord of the Creative**, **Lord of the Deranged**. His sphere is madness and creativity, and his motives are said to be unknowable. He is sometimes referred to as the **[Mad Star](Lore_Daedra_Stars.md)**, the **Mad Lord**, the **Mad One**, the **Mad God** (or **Dam Dog**), and **Uncle Sheo** among other things. His realm, best known as the Shivering Isles, has also been called the Madhouse. It's believed that those who go there lose their sanity forever.<sup>[[nb 2]](#intnote_nb_2)</sup> Of course, only the Mad God himself may decide who has the privilege to enter. The [Golden Saints](Lore_Aureal.md), or Aureals, and [Dark Seducers](Lore_Mazken.md), or Mazken, are his servants. The Mad God typically manifests on [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md) as a seemingly harmless, well-dressed man often carrying a cane, a guise so prevalent it has actually been coined "**Gentleman With a Cane**". "Fearful obeisance" of Sheogorath is widespread in [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md), and he plays an important part in [Dunmeri](Lore_Dunmer.md) religious practice. Sheogorath's summoning day falls on [Mad Pelagius day](Lore_Mad_Pelagius.md), which is the 2nd of Sun's Dawn. However, there is a chance he can be summoned on another Daedric Prince's summoning day if there is a storm on that day.

For more information, see the [main lore article](Lore_Sheogorath.md).

#### Sheor, Bad Man
In [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md), **Sheor**, known as the **Bad Man** is the source of all strife. He seems to have started as the god of crop failure, but most modern theologians agree that he is a demonized version of the [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) [Shor](Lore_Shor.md), or [Aldmeri](Lore_Elves.md) [Lorkhan](Lore_Lorkhan.md) born during the dark years after the fall of [Saarthal](Lore_Saarthal.md). Some sculptures created by the earlier, more elven Bretons known as the Manmeri have been found in [Glenumbra](Lore_Glenumbra.md), which paint what appears to be their version of Sheor before he was villainized, and pair him with [Mara](Lore_Mara.md).

Little is known of the depiction of Sheor but he has been said to be a bearded deity with Bretons swearing by Sheor's Beard. Various other evocations are made in the name of Sheor by Bretons.

#### Sheza-Rana, the Cyan Star
[Sheza-Rana](Lore_Sheza-Rana.md), **the Cyan Star**, **Spritely Liar** is one of the lesser-known [Magna Ge](Lore_Magna_Ge.md), one of the Star-Orphans and an [Anuic](Lore_Anu.md) ur-entity. She was one of [Magnus](Lore_Magnus.md)'s daughters and the sister of [Merid-Nunda](Lore_Merid-Nunda.md), [Mnemo-Li](Lore_Mnemo-Li.md), [Iana-Lor](Lore_Iana-Lor.md), [Xero-Lyg](Lore_Xero-Lyg.md), the eldest [Prime Archon](Lore_Ithelia.md), [Londa-Vera](Lore_Londa-Vera.md), [Unala-Se](Lore_Unala-Se.md), and [Valia-Sha](Lore_Valia-Sha.md). Alongside her sisters, she was part of the Nine Coruscations, who followed the parabolas that led away from Magnus and separated from him when he withdrew from the creation of the [Aurbis](Lore_Aurbis.md). Similarly to other Magna Ge she is now synonymous with the [star](Lore_Stars.md), which she created.

In the text authored by Star-Queen Varalias, she is associated with the [element of water](Lore_Elements.md#Water). She is the bringer of calm and peace after the [Break](Lore_Dragon_Break.md). She taught "the youth the various triumvirate roles to be retaken". She is linked to the wisdom of the unfolding story at the Cradle of Devotion, embodying creativity and energy that uplifts. She brings peace and tranquility, but without harmony and balance, and until [Azura](Lore_Azura.md) unveils the [third eye](Lore_Third_Eye.md), also clarity, foresight, and intuition. She represents mystery, memory, and the unknown.

#### Shezarr, God of Man
[Shezarr](Lore_Shezarr.md) (or **Shezzar**), also known as the **God of Man**, is a [Cyrodilic](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) version of [Lorkhan](Lore_Lorkhan.md) whose cultural importance suffered when [Akatosh](Lore_Akatosh.md) came to the fore of Nibenay religion. Shezarr was the spirit behind all human undertaking, especially against [Aldmeri](Lore_Aldmer.md) aggression. He is sometimes associated with the founding of the first Cyrodilic battlemages. In the present age of racial tolerance, Shezarr is all but forgotten. He is believed to be a thinly-disguised version of [Shor](Lore_Shor.md), and even in the [Colovian](Lore_Colovia.md) West of Cyrodiil, they recognize Shezarr by the name of Shor. One of the thousands of cults in the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md) is dedicated to worship of him.

#### Shor, God of the Underworld
[Shor](Lore_Shor.md) is the [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) version of [Lorkhan](Lore_Lorkhan.md). He sided with [men](Lore_Man.md) after the creation of the world. Foreign gods (i.e., [elven](Lore_Mer.md) ones) conspired against him to bring about his defeat, dooming him to the "underworld", with his death remembered as bringing about the current world. [Atmoran](Lore_Atmora.md) myths depict him as a bloodthirsty warrior king who repeatedly led the Nords to victory over their [Aldmeri](Lore_Aldmer.md) oppressors. Before his doom, Shor, sometimes also called the **Children's God**, was chief of the gods. Dead gods such as Shor and [Tsun](Lore_Tsun.md) don't need temples, for they have the biggest one of all; a vast hall of drinking and revelry known as the Hall of Valor (Shor's Hall). It is believed Shor can be found at [Sovngarde](Lore_Sovngarde.md), an [Aetherial](Lore_Aetherius.md) utopia he built which is open in the afterlife to all Nords who prove their mettle or die valiantly in battle. Though dead, ancient Nordic legends speak of Shor's ghost being "sung" back into the world at momentous occasions in Nordic history. Shor is also associated with the **Fox**, one of the ancient [Atmoran](Lore_Atmora.md) animal totems.

#### Sithis
[Sithis](Lore_Sithis.md), also known as **[Padomay](Lore_Padomay.md)**, **Akel**, **Is-Not**, **El**, **Ixtaxh-thtithil-meht** (meaning **Exact Egg-Cracker**), the **Dread Father**, **Night Lord**, **Raj-Sithis**, **Serpent of Chaos**, **Unmaker**, **First Creator**, **Final Destroyer**, and **Bringer of Ends**, is a representation of the one primordial state of chaos. Sithis is most often associated with the [Dark Brotherhood](Lore_Dark_Brotherhood.md), an assassin organization dedicated to his worship. He is often associated with serpent-like imagery, and small aspects of Sithis have even been known to reveal themselves in the form of ghostly serpents.

Despite being revered as a god, Sithis is neither [Aedric](Lore_Aedra.md) nor [Daedric](Lore_Daedra.md), but the embodiment and personification of chaos and change. He is also sometimes equated to the unending [Void](Lore_Void.md), a realm of nothingness beyond Oblivion and Aetherius. The Dark Brotherhood believes that the [souls](Lore_Souls.md) of those killed in the name of Sithis will be sent to the Void upon death as well. One of their faithful servants, [Lucien Lachance](Lore_Lucien_Lachance.md), was known to have gone to the Void after death. His [spirit](Lore_Ghost.md) claimed to feel disturbances in the Void when the Dread Father was displeased.

It is said that those who enact the will of Sithis with perfect clarity will one day see the Night Lord himself in the Void, though what that sight may do to the viewer is never discussed.

#### Sotha Sil, Mystery of Morrowind
[Sotha Sil](Lore_Sotha_Sil.md), or **Seht**, wizard-mystic god of the [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) and **"Si"** in the [Alm Si Vi](Lore_Almsivi.md), was the most enigmatic member of the divine [Tribunal](Lore_Tribunal.md). He was known as the **Mainspring Ever-Wound**, the **Father of Mysteries**, **Magus**, the **Magician**, the **Teacher**, the **Sorcerer**, the **Tinkerer**, the **Clockwork God**, the **Light of Knowledge**, the **Inspiration of Craft and Sorcery**, the **God of the World Mechanism**, the **Clockwork King of the Three in One**, the **Watchmaker**, patron of artificers and wizards, and the architect of time and a binder of [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md). He did not believe himself to be a god, but did not deprive [Vivec](Lore_Vivec.md) and [Almalexia](Lore_Almalexia.md) of their joy of being acknowledged as one. He also did not acknowledge free will, believing himself bound to creating his greatest invention, the [Clockwork City](Lore_Clockwork_City.md). Those that followed the faith of the [Tribunal Temple](Lore_Tribunal_Temple.md) knew him for his power as well as the knowledge he provided, and for his contribution to helping the former [Chimer](Lore_Chimer.md) transition into their [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) identity. He also had faithful within the Clockwork City, where his [Clockwork Apostles](Lore_Clockwork_Apostles.md) followed the [sermons of Deldrise Morvayn](Lore_The_Truth_in_Sequence.md) and devoted their work towards one goal: achieving Tamriel Final, a new [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md). With the rise of the [New Temple](Lore_New_Temple.md) in the [Fourth Era](Lore_Fourth_Era.md), Sotha Sil and the rest of the Tribunal were demoted to "saints and heroes", and the three [Good Daedra](Lore_Good_Daedra.md) retook their place as the center of worship for the Dunmer as "the Reclamations".

Aside from his Clockwork City, another major part of Sotha Sil's legacy was the creation of the [Coldharbour Compact](Lore_Coldharbour_Compact.md) between himself and eight [Daedric Princes](Lore_Daedric_Princes.md). Its terms are unknown to others, but it is believed it prevented the Daedric Princes from participating in mortal affairs directly, although it has been violated at times. He was the creator of a number of [artifacts](Lore_Artifacts.md), and of various entities such as the [factotums](Lore_Factotum.md) and [fabricants](Lore_Fabricants.md) that populated his realm. He also developed advanced metallic prosthesis which could replace one's limbs. Sotha Sil believed that "the truth of clockwork is for all", but his followers took measures to ensure his creations did not fall into the wrong hands.

For more information, see the [main lore article](Lore_Sotha_Sil.md).

#### Springseed
[Springseed](Lore_Springseed.md) is an unknown deity, described as a handsome blond man, green-clad, with a bow.

According to the story of *[King Edward](Lore_King_Edward.md)*, at some point in history, this entity, alongside [Mara](Lore_Mara.md), [Jephre](Lore_Jephre.md), [Ebonarm](Lore_Ebonarm.md) and several other gods partook in the trial of [Sai](Lore_Sai.md), God of Luck. [Jephre](Lore_Jephre.md) believed that Springseed was more sympathetic towards Sai's cause than the other gods. It is implied that he too once took a mortal wife and sired offspring.

#### Stendarr, God of Mercy
[Stendarr](Lore_Stendarr.md), also known as **Stendarr the Steadfast**, is the **God of Mercy, Charity, Well-Earned Luck**, and **Justice**. He is also acclaimed as the **God of Compassion**, and **Righteous Rule by Might and Merciful Forbearance**. Stendarr is the **Apologist of [Men](Lore_Man.md)**, patron of the [Imperial Legion](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md), magistrates, rulers, and knights errant, and one of the [Divines](Lore_Divines.md).

#### Strenner
[Strenner](Lore_Strenner.md) is an obscure entity, whom was worshipped at "Strenner Havens" throughout the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md).<sup>[[7]](#cite_note-DF-7)</sup>

#### Stuhn, God of Ransom
[Stuhn](Lore_Stuhn.md) is the [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) **God of Ransom, Fraternity, and Justice**, and is represented by a [whale](Lore_Whale.md). He is the brother of [Tsun](Lore_Tsun.md) and the shield-thane of [Shor](Lore_Shor.md), and is one of the Hearth Gods. Stuhn fought against the [Aldmeri](Lore_Aldmer.md) pantheon and showed Men how to take, and the benefits of taking, prisoners of war.

He is seen as a precursor to [Stendarr](Lore_Stendarr.md) by some and seen as the same as Stendarr by others. His teachings are paired up with those of [Jhunal](Lore_Jhunal.md).

#### Sunken Gods
The [Sunken Gods](Lore_Sunken_Gods.md) are obscure entities. A blade called the Short Sword of the Sunken Gods' Awakening was once located within the [Battlespire](Lore_Battlespire.md).<sup>[[8]](#cite_note-8)</sup><sup>[[9]](#cite_note-BS-9)</sup>

#### Syrabane, Warlock's God
[Syrabane](Lore_Syrabane.md), the God of Warlocks, is the [Aldmeri](Lore_Aldmer.md) patron god of mages and a god-ancestor of magic, notable for aiding [Bendu Olo](Lore_Bendu_Olo.md) in the [Fall of the Sload](Lore_Sload.md#Thrassian_Plague_and_Fall_of_the_Sload). Through judicious use of his [magical ring](Lore_Warlock%27s_Ring.md), Syrabane saved many from the scourge of the [Thrassian Plague](Lore_Thrassian_Plague.md). It is said that the ring remains under the command of "Archmage" Syrabane. He is also called the Apprentices' God, for he was a favorite of the younger members of the [Mages Guild](Lore_Mages_Guild.md). A grand statue of him is said to stand on a coastal cliff of [Artaeum](Lore_Artaeum.md), which he allegedly posed for in-person. He (occasionally she) eventually became revered as a god as [Altmeri](Lore_Altmer.md) society developed. Some Altmeri sources claim Syrabane was a student of [Magnus](Lore_Magnus.md) who succeeded him after his retirement; others portray him as a "facet" of Magnus.

## References
1. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-ARGideon_1-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-ARGideon_1-1)***</sup> [Gideon](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Arena:Gideon) location and rumors in *[Arena](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Arena:Arena)*
2. [^](#cite_ref-MOT1_2-0) [*Mystery of Talara, v 1*](Lore_Mystery_of_Talara,_v_1.md) — [Mera Llykith](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Mera_Llykith)
3. [^](#cite_ref-MOT2_3-0) [*Mystery of Talara, v 2*](Lore_Mystery_of_Talara,_v_2.md) — [Mera Llykith](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Mera_Llykith)
4. [^](#cite_ref-MOT4_4-0) [*Mystery of Talara, v 4*](Lore_Mystery_of_Talara,_v_4.md) — [Mera Llykith](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Mera_Llykith)
5. [^](#cite_ref-WOCMA_5-0) [*Words of Clan Mother Ahnissi*](Lore_Words_of_Clan_Mother_Ahnissi.md) — [Clan Mother Ahnissi](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Clan_Mother_Ahnissi)
6. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-TAS_6-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-TAS_6-1)***</sup> [*The Adversarial Spirits*](Lore_The_Adversarial_Spirits.md) — [Amun-dro](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Amun-dro.2C_the_Silent_Priest), the Silent Priest
7. [^](#cite_ref-DF_7-0) [Shrines](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Daggerfall:Shrines) of [*Daggerfall*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Daggerfall:Daggerfall)
8. [^](#cite_ref-8) [*Codex Arcana*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Battlespire:Codex_Arcana)
9. [^](#cite_ref-BS_9-0) Events of [*Battlespire*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Battlespire:Battlespire)

**Note**: The following references are considered to be [unofficial sources](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/General:Unofficial_Lore). They are included to round off this article and may not be authoritative or conclusive.