# Places B

[Overview](Lore_Places.md) | [A](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_A) B [C](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_C) [D](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_D) [E](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_E) [F](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_F) [G](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_G) [H](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_H) [I](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_I) [J](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_J) [K](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_K) [L](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_L) [M](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_M) [N](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_N) [O](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_O) [P](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_P) [Q](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_Q) [R](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_R) [S](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_S) [T](Lore_Places_T.md) [U](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_U) [V](Lore_Places_V.md) [W](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_W) [X](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_X) [Y](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_Y) [Z](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_Z) | [Maps](Lore_Maps.md)
---

## Baar Dau
[Baar Dau](Lore_Baar_Dau.md) (also known as the **Ministry of Truth**, **Prison Moon**, or **Lie Rock**) was a [meteor](Lore_Meteors.md), celestial rock or moonlet which hovered above [Vivec City](Lore_Vivec_City.md) in southern [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md). According to the prevailing legends, it was flung from the [Void](Lore_Void.md) by either [Sheogorath](Lore_Sheogorath.md) or its own malevolence, but was prevented from crashing into the city by the [Tribunal](Lore_Tribunal.md) god [Vivec](Lore_Vivec.md). Vivec allowed it to remain looming above the city so that if its people ever ceased to love him, the rock would fall and destroy them. Other lesser-known tales and theories vary widely as to Baar Dau's origins, with one identifying it as a former [Magna Ge](Lore_Magna_Ge.md) named **Una**, another insisting that it was an egg from which would one day emerge the [nightmarish offspring](Lore_Monster_Children.md) of Vivec and [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md), and yet another claiming that it was [Malacath](Lore_Malacath.md)'s dung.

## Bahia
[Bahia](Lore_Bahia.md) is a small island in the center of the [Yokudan](Lore_Yokuda.md) archipelago, between the [Azurian Sea](Lore_Azurian_Sea.md) and the [Sea of Pearls](Lore_Sea_of_Pearls.md). It is located off the southern coast of [Akos Kasaz](Lore_Akos_Kasaz.md). Other nearby islands include [Yath](Lore_Yath.md) to the south, the similarly sized [Moni](Lore_Moni.md) to the southeast, and [Samara](Lore_Samara.md) to the east.

## Bal Fell
[Bal Fell](Lore_Bal_Fell.md) (either from [Aldmeris](Lore_Aldmeris.md) or a [Dark Elvish](Lore_Dark_Elvish.md) - [Dwemeris](Lore_Dwemeris.md) compound meaning *"City of Stone"*) was an ancient First Era ruin located on an island east of [Vivec City](Lore_Vivec_City.md), in the southeastern islands and promontories of the [Azura's Coast](Lore_Azura%27s_Coast.md) region of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md).

During the Middle [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md), early [Aldmeri](Lore_Aldmer.md) explorers constructed a wizard tower at Bal Fell while mapping the coasts of Vvardenfell after fleeing [Aldmeris](Lore_Aldmeris.md). This tower survived into the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md), when it was inhabited by [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md). It was said to have been built on an ancient center of [Daedra](Lore_Daedra.md) worship, and in the First Era a great shrine to [Sheogorath](Lore_Sheogorath.md) was built there by the [Chimer](Lore_Chimer.md). Eventually Bal Fell grew to become a city of the [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md), known for its dry, crowded streets. It existed at least into the early [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), after the founding of the [Mages Guild](Lore_Mages_Guild.md). The great sorceress Seryne Relas once lived in Bal Fell.

In time, Bal Fell was abandoned, and the only thing left standing were the Daedric ruins. Daedra often plagued the ruins, and the [Ordinators](Lore_Ordinators.md) were charged with keeping away Daedra worshippers. Sometime before [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), a [Nord](Lore_Nord.md) priest of [Sheogorath](Lore_Sheogorath.md) named Mad Griskild set up his workshop in the ruins and began experimenting with alchemy and Daedric magic to [create magically enhanced](Lore_Spider_Crafting.md) [spiders](Lore_Spider.md). An expedition to the ruins led by a famous [Breton](Lore_Breton.md) archaeologist, Lady Clarisse Laurent, fell victim to Griskild's mind-controlling spiders, but the expedition members were saved by the [Vestige](Lore_The_Vestige.md), who killed the Nord. Lady Laurent later sent Griskild's research to a scribe living near [White Ridge Barrow](Lore_White_Ridge_Barrow.md) on [Solstheim](Lore_Solstheim.md), which ultimately led to the creation of unique magical spiders that would be rediscovered in the barrow in the [Fourth Era](Lore_Fourth_Era.md).

By the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), the ruins had obtained a nasty reputation, and wizards from [Great House Telvanni](Lore_Great_House_Telvanni.md) set up competing camps of hirelings and adventurers to explore and loot the ruins. In [3E 427](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_427), House Telvanni and the Mages Guild sent expeditions to clear out the Daedra. They were aided by the [Nerevarine](Lore_Nerevarine.md), who looted the [Ten Pace Boots](Lore_Ten_Pace_Boots.md) from the ruins.

The ruins were likely destroyed in [4E 5](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_5), when [Baar Dau](Lore_Baar_Dau.md) crashed into Vivec City. This impact devastated the surrounding area, creating [Scathing Bay](Lore_Scathing_Bay.md), a large crater filled with boiling water from the [Inner Sea](Lore_Inner_Sea.md).

## Bal Foyen
[Bal Foyen](Lore_Bal_Foyen.md) is a small region on the southern coast of the [Inner Sea](Lore_Inner_Sea.md) of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md), east of [Stonefalls](Lore_Stonefalls.md). It was a wild expanse of marshland and volcanic landscape until the mid- [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md) and the formation of the [Ebonheart Pact](Lore_Ebonheart_Pact.md). Much of it was turned over to the [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md)'s former [Argonian](Lore_Argonian.md) slaves, who planted [saltrice](Lore_Saltrice.md) and herded [guar](Lore_Guar.md) in the former wastes. The Dunmer-built Fort Zeren is found in southern Bal Foyen, previously used as an entry point for the slaves brought from Black Marsh, and the Argonians established the town of [Dhalmora](Lore_Dhalmora.md) in the east.

Cases of [Corprus](Lore_Corprus.md) were reported in the region in [2E 581](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_581). During the [Three Banners War](Lore_Three_Banners_War.md) in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), the [Daggerfall Covenant](Lore_Daggerfall_Covenant.md) invaded Bal Foyen as part of a large-scale invasion of Pact territory. The local defenders succeeded in driving off the invaders and warning the city of [Davon's Watch](Lore_Davon%27s_Watch.md) to the west due to the arrival of refugees from [Bleakrock Isle](Lore_Bleakrock_Isle.md), who had been forced to flee their homes after the island was sacked by the Covenant. However, the Pact suffered heavy losses and civilian casualties during a simultaneous attack on both the dockyards and Fort Zeren, crippling the region.

## Balefire Island
[Balefire Island](Lore_Balefire_Island.md) is an island located off the coast of [Glenumbra](Lore_Glenumbra.md), north of [Eagle's Brook](Lore_Eagle%27s_Brook.md) and [Camlorn](Lore_Camlorn.md). It was under the government of the province of the [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md).

At some point before the [Three Banners War](Lore_Three_Banners_War.md) the isle was a place of a burial of a signifcant number of dead.

During the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md) in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), the isle was infiltrated by Grivier Bloodcaller, a member of the [Bloodthorn Cult](Lore_Bloodthorn_Cult.md), a faction led by the [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md) [gravesinger](Lore_Necromancy.md) [Angof](Lore_Angof.md), whose main goal was to conquer the region of [Glenumbra](Lore_Glenumbra.md).

Grivier discovered that the isle served as the burial grounds in the past and began raising the dead for the Bloodthorn Cult's cause. His machinations were stopped in the same year by a [wandering adventurer](Lore_The_Vestige.md), who defeated the necromancer, and partook in the defeat of the entire Bloodthorn Cult.

## Isle of Balfiera
The [Isle of Balfiera](Lore_Isle_of_Balfiera.md) (also called **Balfiera Island**, **Balfiera Isle**, or simply **Balfiera**) is an island region within the northern portion of [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md). There are at least eight islands in the chain. In the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), the largest settlement was the town of Upvale, the dominant [vampire](Lore_Vampire.md) bloodline was [Lyrezi](Lore_Lyrezi.md), and the regional deity was [Akatosh](Lore_Akatosh.md).

Balfiera was known as a neutral meeting place for the kingdoms of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md), who used it to facilitate negotiations and treaties. However, the isle is most renowned as the site of the [Direnni Tower](Lore_Adamantine_Tower.md), formerly the Adamantine Tower, the oldest known structure in [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). Legends say it was constructed on the "little island" by the gods themselves so they could hold [their own negotiations](Lore_Convention.md). The title for the ruler of the isle is the Castellan of Balfiera, derived from the title originally used for the commander of the tower. The isle was an independent, unconquered territory before the events of the [Warp in the West](Lore_Warp_in_the_West.md), after which it fell under the dominion of one of the four surviving kingdoms of the Iliac Bay region.

## Balmora
[Balmora](Lore_Balmora.md) ([Dark Elvish](Lore_Dark_Elvish.md) for *"Stonewood"* or *"Stoneforest"*) was one of the four cities of the district of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md), known primarily as the district seat of power for the Great [House Hlaalu](Lore_House_Hlaalu.md). The city is built in the river valley of the [West Gash](Lore_West_Gash.md) and was the largest settlement on Vvardenfell, only behind the temple-metropolis, [Vivec City](Lore_Vivec_City.md). It was initially a stronghold of [House Redoran](Lore_House_Redoran.md), but through some business and architectural maneuvers, it was assimilated into a town of House Hlaalu. The city was devastated during the eruption of [Red Mountain](Lore_Red_Mountain.md) in [4E 5](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_5), but was subsequently rebuilt and re-inhabited.

## Bangkorai
[Bangkorai](Lore_Bangkorai.md) is a region east of [Wayrest](Lore_Wayrest.md) and the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md) which straddles the border between [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md) and [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md). It takes its name from the famous Bangkorai Pass. The [Bangkorai Garrison](Lore_Bangkorai_Garrison.md) located there has served as High Rock's defense against the wild raiders of Hammerfell for countless generations. The thickly wooded uplands in the northern [Mournoth](Lore_Mournoth.md) region give away to the blistering heat of the southern [Fallen Wastes](Lore_Fallen_Wastes.md), which are part of the [Alik'r Desert](Lore_Alik%27r_Desert.md). In between them lies an area known as [Ephesus](Lore_Ephesus.md), where the Pass is located. The headwaters of the [Bjoulsae River](Lore_Bjoulsae_River.md) are found in Bangkorai, as well as the legendary [Redguard](Lore_Redguard.md) crypt the [Hall of Heroes](Lore_Hall_of_Heroes.md). The two largest settlements in the region are [Evermore](Lore_Evermore.md) and [Hallin's Stand](Lore_Hallin%27s_Stand.md). Bangkorai is ruled from Evermore.

Many different races have called Bangkorai home, including the [Ayleids](Lore_Ayleids.md) and [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md). In modern times, it is predominantly inhabited by the [Bretons](Lore_Breton.md), and the [Ash'abah](Lore_Ash%27abah.md) —the ancient pariah tribe of the Redguards—also maintain a presence in the southern wastes. Due to Bangkorai's strategic importance to the Breton homeland, it is sometimes called the "Shield of High Rock". A longstanding belief in northern Bangkorai is that their settlements are protected from the dangers of the wilderness by the [Viridian Sentinel](Lore_Viridian_Sentinel.md), a mystical office of guardianship which has been passed on to an anointed successor since the days of fall of the [Direnni Hegemony](Lore_Direnni.md).

## Bantha
The [Bantha](Lore_Bantha.md), or the **Banthan Jungle,** is a lush tropical jungle region in the province of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md).

The precise location of the Bantha is unknown; however, it is considered part of the Iliac Bay. The people of the Bantha are known to celebrate two holidays. [Aduros Nau](Lore_Aduros_Nau.md) is celebrated on the 28th of [Sun's Dawn](Lore_Calendar.md#Sun.27s_Dawn) to commemorate the transition from the winter, and the [Feast of the Tiger](Lore_Feast_of_the_Tiger.md) is observed on the 14th of [Last Seed](Lore_Last_Seed.md). Though the Feast of the Tiger presumably originated as a means of venerating an obscure [Tiger God](Lore_Tiger_God.md), it is now a thanksgiving.

## Barathrum Centrata
The [Barathrum Centrata](Lore_Barathrum_Centrata.md) is the centralmost section of the Imperial Sewers, the vast network of caves and tunnels underneath the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md) and the surrounding [Heartlands](Lore_Heartlands.md). At its center is the foundation of the [White-Gold Tower](Lore_White-Gold_Tower.md), a stone monopile supported by six massive vaults. Its location had been lost to time and has since developed a legendary status around it until its rediscovery in the mid- [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md).

## Bardmont
**Bardmont** was a town in [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), located south of [Dawnstar](Lore_Dawnstar.md). Circa [2E 283](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_283), [Potentate](Lore_Akaviri_Potentate.md) [Versidue-Shaie](Lore_Versidue-Shaie.md) gathered the [Imperial Council](Lore_Elder_Council.md) in the town and declared martial and Imperial law.<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-1)</sup>

## Barren Cave
[Barren Cave](Lore_Barren_Cave.md) is a natural cave network found in the [Cheydinhal Foothills](Lore_Cheydinhal_Foothills.md), in the western [Heartlands](Lore_Heartlands.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). It is located along the [Blue Road](Lore_Blue_Road.md).

## Battlehorn Castle
[Battlehorn Castle](Lore_Battlehorn_Castle.md) is a large castle located in the [Colovian Highlands](Lore_Colovian_Highlands.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), close to the [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md) border. It can be found along the [Black Road](Lore_Black_Road.md) west of the city of [Chorrol](Lore_Chorrol.md). It is named for the greater Battlehorn region that has existed long before the castle, of which it is found in. The castle contains many rooms, a smithy, and a shrine to [Julianos](Lore_Julianos.md), the patron deity of [Lainlyn](Lore_Lainlyn_(barony).md). It serves as the home of a group of exiled [Knights of the True Horn](Lore_Knights_of_the_True_Horn.md).

## Battlespire
The [Battlespire](Lore_Battlespire.md), also called the **Spire** or the **Celestial Citadel**, is a void-castle that serves as the magical war academy of the [Imperial Battle College](Lore_Imperial_Battle_College.md) and [Imperial Battlemages](Lore_Imperial_Battlemages.md), acting as a testing facility for those seeking to join the [Imperial Guard](Lore_Imperial_Guard.md). The strongest mages in the Empire reside and train in the Battlespire. It is described as the fortress of all fortresses that encompasses the entirety of a realm, with ramparts that tower over the edges of Oblivion. Beyond them, only the [Void](Lore_Void.md). The [Imperial Battlemage of Tamriel](Lore_Imperial_Battlemage_of_Tamriel.md) (not to be confused with regular Imperial Battlemages) is an aristocratic position in which one serves as the advisory head of the [Elder Council](Lore_Elder_Council.md), and it was customary for future advisors to be plucked from the administers of Battlespire, the Spire Council, who were themselves battlemage classmen.

## Belarata
[Belarata](Lore_Belarata.md) is an [Ayleid ruin](Lore_Ayleid_Ruins.md) located on the river basin of [Malabal Tor](Lore_Malabal_Tor.md), in the province of [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md). The ruin was infamous for many years because of its locked doors and the mystery behind them. In truth, the ruins acted as a tomb for the noblewoman, Elanwe, the Lady of the Weald, whose spirit yearned for her long-lost love, Lord Varondil the Gold. She magically sealed the ruins and its bounty of treasure from intruders and it would only respond to her lover's enchanted sword. The spirits were eventually reunited and the ruins were pilfered of its treasures.

## Belkarth
[Belkarth](Lore_Belkarth.md) (also known as **Belkarth Guard**), formerly **Reinhold's Retreat**, is a town in eastern [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), located in the center of Lower [Craglorn](Lore_Craglorn.md). It is a trading hub for the region due to its location on the highway between [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md) and [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), and is notorious for attracting scoundrels and wanderers. Despite its multiculturalism, the town possesses typical [Redguard](Lore_Redguard.md) architecture.

## Belport Run
[Belport Run](Lore_Belport_Run.md) is a settlement located on a small island northeast of the [Summerset Isle](Lore_Summerset_Isle.md), within the [Auridon Strait](Lore_Auridon_Strait.md), the body of water between two major islands of the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md). It neighbored [Karndar Watch](Lore_Karndar_Watch.md), which was located across the sea from Belport Run, on the Summerset Isle.

## Bergama
[Bergama](Lore_Bergama.md) is a large city found in the dry canyons of the [Alik'r Desert](Lore_Alik%27r_Desert.md), in the province of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md). Despite its intentional location in the deep desert, Bergama is a bustling trading hub that provides travelers with a safe sanctuary in the harsh desert environment. It was established by the [Na-Totambu](Lore_Na-Totambu.md), the former nobility of [Yokuda](Lore_Yokuda.md) as a place to preserve their ancient tradition and customs from [Tamrielic](Lore_Tamriel.md) influence. In the present day, Bergama is associated with their descendants, the [Crowns](Lore_Crowns.md). It is the capital city of the eponymous [barony](Lore_Bergama_(barony).md), which is completely surrounded by the unconquered Alik'r Desert territory.

## Bergama (barony)
[Bergama](Lore_Bergama_(barony).md) is a region found in the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md) region of northern [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md). it is a small and landlocked country completely surrounded by the vast expanse of the [Alik'r Desert](Lore_Alik%27r_Desert.md). The capital city was founded by the [Na-Totambu](Lore_Na-Totambu.md) as a place to preserve their ancient and sacred traditions, away from [Tamrielic](Lore_Tamriel.md) influences. The people of the barony can tell little to no difference where their ends and where the Alik'r Desert begins. To them, they are one with the Alik'r, which is the philosophy of the desert people as the scholar, [Enric Milres](Lore_Enric_Milres.md) wrote in his [memoir](Lore_The_Alik%27r.md).

## Betony
The [Isle of Betony](Lore_Betony.md), called **Betnikh** by the [Orcs](Lore_Orc.md), is a strategically important island in the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md), off the coast of [Daggerfall](Lore_Daggerfall.md).

Besides being a prosperous fishing island, Betony is also known for its lush, fertile interior. Its habitat includes the rare and exotic sixteen-eyed Habanoo caterpillar. Perhaps because of this rich reputation, it has been a frequent target of pirates and others throughout the years. Any would-be attackers must face Betony's steep cliffs and defensible nature, which may have inspired early legends claiming it was home to a mighty rock monster that flung its craggy spines into the sea, threatening sailors who drifted too close. The dominant [vampire](Lore_Vampirism.md) bloodline in the region is the [Vraseth](Lore_Vraseth.md), and the regional deity is [Mara](Lore_Mara.md).

## Bhoriane
[Bhoriane](Lore_Bhoriane.md) was a [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md) county on the southern coast of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md) stretching along the northern coast of the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md). Its capital was the city of Bhoriane. Two islands just west of the [Isle of Balfiera](Lore_Isle_of_Balfiera.md) were also part of this region. The mainland shared borders with [Dwynnen](Lore_Dwynnen.md) to the west, [Kambria](Lore_Kambria.md) to the north, and [Koegria](Lore_Koegria.md) to the east. The [Montalion](Lore_Montalion.md) clan was the predominant [vampire](Lore_Vampire.md) bloodline in the region. Bhoriane was briefly mentioned in the *[Charwich-Koniinge Letters](Lore_Charwich-Koniinge_Letters.md)* during the quest for [Azura's Star](Lore_Azura%27s_Star.md).

## Bismuth Steam Baths Isle
[Bismuth Steam Baths Isle](Lore_Bismuth_Steam_Baths_Isle.md) is a small tropical island in the [Southern Sea](Lore_Southern_Sea.md), situated directly south of the larger island of [Solstice](Lore_Solstice_(island).md).

The island's flora includes flame lilies, summertide flowers, orange and purple gorse, palm trees, grasses, and banana trees. The island also contains significant deposits of [bismuth](Lore_Bismuth.md).

## Bisnensel
[Bisnensel](Lore_Bisnensel.md) is an [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) ruin in [Bangkorai](Lore_Bangkorai.md), in the middle of [Halcyon Lake](Lore_Halcyon_Lake.md). It was founded by Ayleid refugees from [Nenalata](Lore_Nenalata.md) between [1E 375](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_375) and [1E 452](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_452) under the rule of [Laloriaran Dynar](Lore_Laloriaran_Dynar.md). Bisnensel was built partly above and partly below the surface, although only the subterranean parts have survived.

## Bitter Coast
The [Bitter Coast](Lore_Bitter_Coast.md), named for the salt marshes along the coast, was the part of Vvardenfell's coast nearest to the mainland of Morrowind. This largely uninhabited area was in the far southwest of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md) and lay between the mountains of the [West Gash](Lore_West_Gash.md) to the east, the Sea of Ghosts to the north, and the [Inner Sea](Lore_Inner_Sea.md) to the west. The northern boundary of the region was generally considered to be marked by [Khartag Point](Lore_Khartag_Point.md) just north of [Gnaar Mok](Lore_Gnaar_Mok.md), the Odai River the east, to and it followed the coast south and eastward through the tiny fishing and smuggling village of [Hla Oad](Lore_Hla_Oad.md) and the [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) outpost at [Seyda Neen](Lore_Seyda_Neen.md), finally merging into terrain more reminiscent of the [Ascadian Isles](Lore_Ascadian_Isles.md) just west of [Vivec](Lore_Vivec_(city).md). The Firemoth region is sometimes considered part of the Bitter Coast.

The Bitter Coast was dominated by humid, putrid swamps and salt marshes. The giant [bull netch](Lore_Bull_Netch.md) floated gently through the air, fearing no [cliff racer](Lore_Cliff_Racer.md) or [mudcrab](Lore_Mudcrab.md), and hunting was considered fair. Off the coast, divers found kollops with pearls, but even more [slaughterfish](Lore_Slaughterfish.md) and man-like [dreugh](Lore_Dreugh.md) with their hard shells and tentacles. Herbalists came to this region to harvest the various mushrooms, pods, and flowers which thrived in the marshy environment. The region was also known as *The Smuggler's Coast*, since the secluded coves and islands were littered with smugglers operating out of their hidden caves. The ever-present fog and rain provided additional cover for their boats. No major action had been taken to curtail their actions, as many smugglers counted on support from locals unhappy with high taxes on liquor.

## Bjoulsae River
The [Bjoulsae River](Lore_Bjoulsae_River.md) is a major river that forms most of the border between [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md) and [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md). It is the home of the [River Horse Bretons](Lore_River_Horse_Bretons.md), tribes of nomadic [Bretons](Lore_Breton.md) that live throughout the river and nearby [Bangkorai](Lore_Bangkorai.md). The river's water source is the vast [Halcyon Lake](Lore_Halcyon_Lake.md), found in the dead center of [Mournoth](Lore_Mournoth.md). The river advances southwest pass the kingdom of [Evermore](Lore_Evermore.md) until it empties into the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md). There are multiple rivers that empty into the Bjoulsae River: one of the named ones is the Jugular from the north somewhere east of [Wind Keep](Lore_Wind_Keep.md), another is the [Gardner](Lore_Gardner.md) that runs from Cumberland Falls through [Wayrest](Lore_Wayrest.md), and the other is the [Yrinthi River](Lore_Yrinthi_River.md), which is infested with pirates like the Bjoulsae and the Iliac. Rowboat racing throughout the Bjoulsae River has been a popular pastime for centuries.

## Blackbone Isle
[Blackbone Isle](Lore_Blackbone_Isle.md) is a small isolated island located in the [Sea of Ghosts](Lore_Sea_of_Ghosts.md), north of [Forgotten Vale](Lore_Forgotten_Vale.md) and southwest of [Castle Volkihar](Lore_Castle_Volkihar.md). The island consists of a small strip of coastline as well as the entrance to a cave known as Blackbone Isle Grotto. It takes less than a day to sail to Blackbone Isle from the northwestern shore of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). It housed the treasure and wealth amassed by [Cyrus](Lore_Cyrus.md) the Restless. It is plagued by [undead](Lore_Undead.md), such as [bonewolves](Lore_Bonewolf.md), [ghosts](Lore_Ghost.md) and [zombies](Lore_Zombie.md).

## Blacklight
[Blacklight](Lore_Blacklight.md) is one of the eight major cities on the mainland of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md), situated on the northwest point of the province, near the [Velothi Mountains](Lore_Velothi_Mountains.md). Blacklight is most well known as the capital of the Great [House Redoran](Lore_House_Redoran.md), whose values revolve around the virtues of maintaining honor and persevering through hard-work as a valiant warrior. Since the provincial capital, [Mournhold](Lore_Mournhold.md), was sacked by the [Argonians](Lore_Argonian.md) in the [Accession War](Lore_Accession_War.md) of [4E 6](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_6), Blacklight has become the new capital and the Council of [Great Houses](Lore_Great_Houses.md) have been held in the city's Rootspire.

## Blackreach
[Blackreach](Lore_Blackreach.md) ([Dwemer](Lore_Dwemeris.md): *Fal'Zhardum Din*, "Blackest Kingdom Reaches") is an immense cavern located deep beneath [the Pale](Lore_The_Pale.md), [Winterhold](Lore_Winterhold_(region).md), [Hjaalmarch](Lore_Hjaalmarch.md), [Haafingar](Lore_Haafingar.md), [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md), and possibly extending across all Nine Holds within [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). Many giant glowing mushrooms grow throughout the cavern, providing natural light. The cavern is rich in minerals, including rare geode veins, and a subterranean river flows through it. Originally settled by the first [vampire](Lore_Vampire.md) clans and later the [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md), Blackreach once served as a highway connecting several of the Dwemeri cities found within Skyrim. Various inhabitants can be found within Blackreach, these include [Dwemer Animunculi](Lore_Dwemer_Animunculi.md), [Falmer](Lore_Falmer.md), Vampires, [Giants](Lore_Giant.md), [Frost Trolls](Lore_Frost_Troll.md), and [Wispmothers](Lore_Wispmother.md).

## Blackridge
[Blackridge](Lore_Blackridge.md) is an abandoned town located in [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), in the [Bloodfall Kingdom](Lore_Bloodfall_Kingdom.md).

## Blackrose
[Blackrose](Lore_Blackrose.md) is one of the eight major cities in the province of [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md), situated in a lake in the south-central portion of the province. Blackrose is a city surrounded in infamy and contains many secrets. It is said that many have entered its walls but few ever leave it. From antiquity to the modern-day, Blackrose and its environs hosted many different races, from the [Lilmothiit](Lore_Lilmothiit.md) that initially built the city and presided over the southern coast, to the [Argonians](Lore_Argonian.md) and the [Imperials](Lore_Imperial.md) that currently lay claim to it.

## Blackrose Prison
[Blackrose Prison](Lore_Blackrose_Prison.md) (or simply, **the Rose**) is a notorious [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) prison situated in the region of [Murkmire](Lore_Murkmire.md), within the province of [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md). As stated before, the Blackrose Prison is notorious throughout the provinces, housing the most infamous criminals that were active during the latter half of the [Second Empire](Lore_Second_Empire.md) and throughout the [Third Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md). The Rose was designed specifically for its location, considering Black Marsh's harsh environment and the aggressive [Naga](Lore_Naga.md) of Murkmire.

## Blackwood
[Blackwood](Lore_Blackwood.md) is the swampland east of [Leyawiin](Lore_Leyawiin.md) along the Trans-Niben, adjacent to the [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md) border. The waters from this swamp drain south into [Topal Bay](Lore_Topal_Bay.md).

## Black Gate
[Black Gate](Lore_Black_Gate.md) is a strategic fortress in the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md), located just southwest of [Mournhold](Lore_Mournhold.md). Black Gate was a stronghold utilized during the time of the [Tribunal](Lore_Tribunal.md), most notably during the [Four-Score War](Lore_Four-Score_War.md).

In [1E 2920](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_2920), Black Gate was besieged by the [Second Empire](Lore_Second_Empire.md), around the 23rd of [Sun's Height](Lore_Sun%27s_Height.md), amidst the negotiations after the war between the Crown Prince [Juilek Cyrodiil](Lore_Juilek.md) and [Vivec](Lore_Vivec.md). The Prince made no plans to attack Black Gate. It was instead the brainchild of his father, Emperor [Reman Cyrodiil III](Lore_Reman_III.md), and the Akaviri Potentate, [Versidue-Shaie](Lore_Versidue-Shaie.md). Regardless, the negotiations had continued at the settlement of Ald Lambasi.

## Black Harbor
[Black Harbor](Lore_Black_Harbor.md) is the main port on the island of [Esroniet](Lore_Esroniet.md), a spice island located in the [Padomaic Ocean](Lore_Padomaic_Ocean.md).

## Black Heights
[Black Heights](Lore_Black_Heights.md) is a small village in the outlying hills of the [Tenmar Forest](Lore_Tenmar_Forest.md) and is located in the province of [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md). Most of the people in town have a deep devotion to the arts and produce some of the highest quality paints and dyes in [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). Its people have a great reverence for [Khenarthi](Lore_Khenarthi.md), the [Khajiiti](Lore_Khajiit.md) goddess of winds and worship her from **Khenarthi's Breath Temple**, an ornate temple in the town's southern outskirts and marginally run by an [Alfiq](Lore_Alfiq.md) priesthood.

## Black Kiergo
[Black Kiergo](Lore_Black_Kiergo.md) (sometimes spelled as **Black Keirgo**) is one of the districts found in [Senchal](Lore_Senchal.md), a major city in the province of [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md). It is infamously known as the squalid and dangerous slums of Senchal, where illicit [Moon-Sugar](Lore_Moon-sugar.md) dens are found across the streets, populated by [Khajiit](Lore_Khajiit.md) and nobility alike. In the mid-years of the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md), Black Kiergo was relegated to the underground, becoming a section of the city's outlaws refuge. While the poor live in shanty-towns, all sorts of criminal activity occur in Black Kiergo, essentially becoming the region's center of the black market. It is well known that [Rajhin](Lore_Rajhin.md) was born in the slums, before becoming the Thief God of the Khajiit.

## Black Marsh
[Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md) is a dense swampland region of southeastern [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md), home to the reptilian humanoid race of [Argonians](Lore_Argonian.md) and a race of sapient trees known as the [Hist](Lore_Hist.md). [Mer](Lore_Mer.md) refer to the region as **Argonia**, named after an ancient battlefield. The Argonians do not have a word for their homeland in their [native language](Lore_Jel.md), in part because they do not consider it a singular nation. A member of the Argonian Gee-Rusleel tribe once used the wide-swamp gesture alongside the word **kronka-thatith** (roughly meaning "everything-egg") to describe the region, which is probably the closest non-Jel speakers will ever get in the way of a "true name" for the region. Many Argonians who live there struggle with the concept of it being a "province", as there is so much varied difference in each part of Black Marsh.

The Argonians thrive in the foreboding swamps of Black Marsh, a lush and threatening land teeming with poisonous plants and violent predators. The region's tropical climate lends its plants the capacity to overturn all attempts to cultivate them. Foreign agricultural, colonial, and commercial ventures beyond the slave-trade have met with abject failure. The native Argonians organize themselves on the tribal level with success and efficiency, and were only loosely integrated into the ruling [Empire](Lore_Empire.md) when Cyrodiilic Emperors deigned to lay claim to the land.

Aside from the Argonians, Black Marsh is host to a slew of other sapient peoples. The human inhabitants of Black Marsh ([Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) settlers from the Cyrodiilic Empire notwithstanding) include the [Horwalli](Lore_Horwalli.md), the [Yespest](Lore_Yespest.md), and the silver-skinned [Kothringi](Lore_Kothringi.md). The [Orma](Lore_Orma.md), who are predisposed to blindness, are another Mannish race that inhabits the marsh. The serpent-bodied [Lamias](Lore_Lamia.md) and the vulpine [Lilmothiit](Lore_Lilmothiit.md) (the latter of which lived along the southern coasts) are notable instances of humanoid and semi-humanoid races that live in the region. The Kothringi and the Lilmothiit were driven to extinction by the [Knahaten Flu](Lore_Knahaten_Flu.md).

For more information, see the [main lore article](Lore_Black_Marsh.md).

## Black Road
The [Black Road](Lore_Black_Road.md) road runs east to west between the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md) and [Chorrol](Lore_Chorrol.md). It traverses the [Great Forest](Lore_Great_Forest.md), passing through [Fort Ash](Lore_Fort_Ash.md) and [Weynon Priory](Lore_Weynon_Priory.md). Just to the east of Chorrol, the road joins with the [Orange Road](Lore_Orange_Road.md). West of Chorrol, the road continues on into the [Colovian Highlands](Lore_Colovian_Highlands.md) toward [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), passing [Battlehorn Castle](Lore_Battlehorn_Castle.md).

## Bleakwind Bluff
The [Bleakwind Bluff](Lore_Bleakwind_Bluff.md) is a small ruined tower located on the [Tundra Plateau](Lore_Tundra_Plateau.md) between [Rorikstead](Lore_Rorikstead.md), [Rebel's Cairn](Lore_Rebel%27s_Cairn.md) and [Red Eagle Redoubt](Lore_Red_Eagle_Redoubt.md) in the eastern hills of [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md).

## Blighted Isle
**Blighted Isle** is an island within the [Bjoulsae River](Lore_Bjoulsae_River.md) in [Bangkorai](Lore_Bangkorai.md). Circa [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), the isle was infested with [Reach-magic](Lore_Reachmen.md#Reach-magic).<sup>[[2]](#cite_note-2)</sup>

## Bleaker's Way
[Bleaker's Way](Lore_Bleaker%27s_Way.md) is a settlement found north of the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md), in the [Great Forest](Lore_Great_Forest.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md).

In the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), a settlement was founded here by a [Nord](Lore_Nord.md) named Ulf the Bleaker. Soon after, a [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) named Rayno Dalvilu and his family arrived. While relations were initially cordial, the two families soon came into conflict. As tensions came to a head the majority of the village was evacuated, leaving Rayno, Ulf, and two of Ulf's clanmates. As the remaining Bleakers stood their ground, Rayno—who had locked himself in his home—cast a spell to obliterate the trio. While the spell was successful in killing the Bleakers, Rayno was also killed in the ensuing chaos, and the hamlet was left deserted.

During the [Three Banners War](Lore_Three_Banners_War.md) of [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), a small fort called Bleaker's Outpost was located just south of the settlement. It was initially held by the [Daggerfall Covenant](Lore_Daggerfall_Covenant.md), although the outpost changed hands many times over the course of the war. Its strategic position was critical to maintain supply lines. The ruins of the village were inhabited by a group of [giants](Lore_Giant.md) at the time.

Sometime after the Three Banners War, both the Bleakers (now called the Ulfgars) and the Dalvilus returned to Bleaker's Way. In spite of their earlier issues, the two families lived in peace for centuries, but their harmony eventually drew the attention of [Mephala](Lore_Mephala.md). In [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433), she ordered the [Hero of Kvatch](Lore_Hero_of_Kvatch.md) to assassinate the village leaders, Hrol Ulfgar and Nivan Dalvilu, and frame the other families for the murder. When the villagers learned of their neighbors' supposed treachery, history repeated itself and they fought among themselves, decimating the population until only one family remained and pleasing Mephala with their strife.

## Bleakrock Isle
[Bleakrock Isle](Lore_Bleakrock_Isle.md) is a small, barren island in the [Sea of Ghosts](Lore_Sea_of_Ghosts.md) northeast of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), just to the south of [Solstheim](Lore_Solstheim.md). Sparsely populated by [Nord](Lore_Nord.md) farmers and fishermen, and far off any major trade routes, it has little strategic or economic importance.

## Blinker Creek
[Blinker Creek](Lore_Blinker_Creek.md) is a body of water where the eponymous Battle of Blinker Creek occurred. At some point between [4E 26](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_26) and [4E 48](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_48), Crown Prince [Attrebus Mede](Lore_Attrebus_Mede.md) took part in the Battle of Blinker Creek. Similarly to his many other battles before [Umbriel Crisis](Lore_Umbriel_Crisis.md), he did not lose more than three of his personal guard in a single battle.

## Bloodmayne
[Bloodmayne](Lore_Bloodmayne.md) is a forested area found in the [Nibenay Valley](Lore_Nibenay_Valley.md). It is specifically located on the northside of the [Larsius River](Lore_Larsius_River.md), but specifically between [Bravil](Lore_Bravil.md) and [Anutwyll](Lore_Anutwyll.md) to the southeast and [Wenyandawik](Lore_Wenyandawik.md) to the northwest. It lends its name to a cavern on the riverbed called **Bloodmayne Cave**, but in the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md), it was also used for the historical **Castle Bloodmayne**, which sat in the dead center of the area, in the middle of a shallow marsh, surrounded by [willow](Lore_Willow.md) trees.

## Bloodrun Cave
[Bloodrun Cave](Lore_Bloodrun_Cave.md) is a natural cave network found in [Blackwood](Lore_Blackwood.md), on the steep southern banks of the [Panther River](Lore_Panther_River.md) in [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). It is notable for the ancient [Dark Brotherhood](Lore_Dark_Brotherhood.md) ruins found within, including a sanctuary and tombs for fallen assassins.

## Blue Palace
The [Blue Palace](Lore_Blue_Palace.md) (also called **Castle Solitude**) is a large castle found on the eastern end of the city of [Solitude](Lore_Solitude.md). It is the seat of power in [Haafingar Hold](Lore_Haafingar.md), where the Jarls of Solitude and even the High Kings of Skyrim occupy its grandiose and stately halls. The northeast wing contains the Jarl and their court's living quarters, while the southwest wing, known as the Pelagius Wing, is in a mass state of disrepair and avoided since the death of the eponymous [Mad King](Lore_Pelagius_Septim_III.md) of Solitude. The Imperial Gardens in the palace courtyard contains a formal and motley assortment of various regional flora like [thistle branches](Lore_Thistle_Branch.md) and [Douad shrubs](Lore_Douad_Shrub.md).

## Blue Road
The [Blue Road](Lore_Blue_Road.md) runs east to west between the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md) and [Cheydinhal](Lore_Cheydinhal.md) in the province of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md).

## Blue River Prison
[Blue River Prison](Lore_Blue_River_Prison.md) was a facility active in the [Fourth Era](Lore_Fourth_Era.md). It was believed that [Esbern](Lore_Esbern.md) was responsible for the breach of the Blue River Prison. This was considered one of the most damaging operations carried out by the Blades during the years before the [Great War](Lore_Great_War.md) by the [Thalmor](Lore_Thalmor.md).<sup>[[3]](#cite_note-TDE-3)</sup>

## Bodrum
[Bodrum](Lore_Bodrum.md) (sometimes called **Bodrum-on- [Prytasus](Lore_Pryai_River.md)** or **Bodrom Mora**) is a hamlet in westernmost [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md), located atop a steep bluff just above the [Pryai River](Lore_Pryai_River.md). Bodrum is located south of [Varanis](Lore_Varanis.md) and [Omaynis](Lore_Omaynis.md), and slightly northeast of [Cheydinhal](Lore_Cheydinhal.md) across the [Valus Mountains](Lore_Valus_Mountains.md). An adjacent subregion to the hamlet called the **Bodrums** is implied to exist.

## Bogmother
[Bogmother](Lore_Bogmother.md) is an ancient [Argonian](Lore_Argonian.md) ruin, located deep in the bogs of [Shadowfen](Lore_Shadowfen.md), southwest of [Stormhold](Lore_Stormhold.md). It was once a temple village, and some of the intricate carvings can still be seen on its towers and the monumental stepped pyramid (or *Xanmeer*). The area is still sacred to the Argonians, and hosts several venerable relics. Open-bottomed spoons made of Bogmother [dreugh](Lore_Dreugh.md) -shell are used in the [Argonian](Lore_Argonian.md) ritual of the Empty Feast of Nullity.

## Bogwater
[Bogwater](Lore_Bogwater.md) is a swamp located in southern [Blackwood](Lore_Blackwood.md), on the eastern coast of [Topal Bay](Lore_Topal_Bay.md) in the province of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). It is surrounded by the Niben Forest to the north, Blackwood Bog to the northeast, and [Gloomire](Lore_Gloomire.md) in [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md) to the southeast. A small island to the south hides the entrance to the ancient [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md) complex known as [Deepscorn Hollow](Lore_Deepscorn_Hollow.md).

## Borderwatch
[Borderwatch](Lore_Borderwatch.md) (also spelled **Border Watch**) is a settlement in [Blackwood](Lore_Blackwood.md) along [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md)'s [Green Road](Lore_Green_Road.md) between [Leyawiin](Lore_Leyawiin.md) and [Bravil](Lore_Bravil.md), close to the [Anequina](Lore_Anequina.md) border.

## Borim Valley
[Borim Valley](Lore_Borim_Valley.md) is a landmark and where the Battle at Borim Valley occurred.

## Brackenleaf
[Brackenleaf](Lore_Brackenleaf_(settlement).md) is a [Graht-oak](Lore_Graht-oak.md) township located within Brackenleaf's forest, bordered by the [Long Coast](Lore_Long_Coast.md), the southernmost region of the grand region of [Grahtwood](Lore_Grahtwood.md). It was located north of [Haven](Lore_Haven.md). It shares its name with the ancient tree [Brackenleaf](Lore_Brackenleaf_(tree).md), planted by [Y'ffre](Lore_Y%27ffre.md) at the creation of the world. It was known to be home of the [Brackenleaf's Briars](Lore_Brackenleaf%27s_Briars.md), an exclusive order of hunters dedicated to seeking the balance in everything and protecting Brackenleaf and its heart from enemies who seek to destroy Y'ffre's creation and steal the power held within the heart.

## Bramblebreach
[Bramblebreach](Lore_Bramblebreach.md) is a large settlement found just south of the city of [Marbruk](Lore_Marbruk.md), in the province of [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md). The town acquired its name a long time ago when a massive wall of bramble grew around the [Wilderking Court](Lore_Wilderking_Court.md) region and the site was the only opening; a breach in the bramble. It is the home of the eponymous **Bramblebreach Clan**, an ancient tribe of [Bosmer](Lore_Bosmer.md) that are unequivocally loyal to the [Wilderking](Lore_Wilderking.md).

## Bravil
[Bravil](Lore_Bravil.md) is a [Nibenese](Lore_Nibenay.md) city located on the banks of the [Niben Bay](Lore_Niben_Bay.md), south of the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md). It is found in the [Nibenay Valley](Lore_Nibenay_Valley.md), which was historically said to be a tropical region enclosed by an equatorial rain forest and broken up by rivers. The [Larsius River](Lore_Larsius_River.md) passes through and wraps around the town, as the [Green Road](Lore_Green_Road.md) curves around it. A remarkably large [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) settlement is found underneath the city. The symbol of the city is the wild stag.

Under [Marukhati](Lore_Alessian_Order.md) rule, cities of the Nibenay Valley were forced to become mercantile magocracies, allowing them to be wealthiest city-states in the region throughout the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md). In the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), Bravil was built in a unique Nibenese architectural style. By the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), Bravil was a squalid town described as one of the poorest in [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) with houses built like shacks, being wooden and stacked upon each other. The Larsius River that runs through the town serves as Bravil's sewers. Because of its location on the bay's shore and the marshes and swamps that surround it, the climate is damp.

## Brellach
[Brellach](Lore_Brellach.md) is the home of the [Aureal](Lore_Aureal.md), located in the north of [Mania](Lore_Mania.md) on the Saints Watch peninsula, in the [Shivering Isles](Lore_Shivering_Isles.md). It is the most sacred place to the Golden Saints, as it contains the Wellspring of the Aureal. The souls of fallen Aureals are called back to the Isles from the Waters of [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md) to the Font of Rebirth by use of ceremonial chimes. The stronghold was given to the Aureal by Lord [Sheogorath](Lore_Sheogorath.md) and no mortals are usually permitted to pass inside the sacred halls.

## Brena River
The [Brena River](Lore_Brena_River.md) is a fairly short, steep-banked river that flows into the [Abecean Sea](Lore_Abecean_Sea.md) just south of the city of [Rihad](Lore_Rihad.md). The main branch rises in the [Colovian Highlands](Lore_Colovian_Highlands.md) and forms part of the border between [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md) and [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), flowing westward along the northern edge of the [Gold Coast](Lore_Gold_Coast.md). It is joined by another branch from within Hammerfell at a point on the border roughly north of [Anvil](Lore_Anvil.md). The Brena is an important trade route to the interior of the continent, and has occasionally been preyed upon by pirates.

The [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) complex of [Varlaisvea](Lore_Varlaisvea.md) lies at the mouth of the Brena, on the Hammerfell side of the border.

## Briar Rock Ruins
[Briar Rock Ruins](Lore_Briar_Rock_Ruins.md) is a large set of nordic ruins situated deep in the mountain valley of [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md). It was originally an Ancient [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) watchtower that contained a crypt of [draugr](Lore_Draugr.md), but it has since been a safe refuge for the local clans of [Reachmen](Lore_Reachmen.md) that need it. The ruins have been commonly occupied by the [Thornroot Clan](Lore_Thornroot_Clan.md), who are staunch protectors of their land and will stand against any foreign threat. Briar Rock is divided into two areas, the main ruin is known as **Hag Rock Redoubt**, whereas the innermost tower and summit is called **Dead Crone Rock**.

## Brindle Home
[Brindle Home](Lore_Brindle_Home.md), formerly **Castle Brindle**, is a settlement located far north of [Skingrad](Lore_Skingrad.md), deep in the [Great Forest](Lore_Great_Forest.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md).During the [Three Banners War](Lore_Three_Banners_War.md), Castle Brindle was an expansive and strategically important fortress. It had its own farm, mine and lumbermill, and was heavily fortified. It was considered to be in the [Aldmeri Dominion](Lore_Aldmeri_Dominion.md)'s territory.

By the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), nothing remained of the keep. Brindle Home consisted of a small village and stables. For a time, an [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) warrior named Melus Petilius served as the town's guardian, killing off hordes of [goblins](Lore_Goblin.md) when they attacked the settlement and clearing out a nest of [minotaurs](Lore_Minotaur.md) single-handedly. However, Petilius swore never to raise a weapon again when his wife died of a fever while he was away fighting, and he built a cabin outside of town to be closer to her grave. His piousness disgusted [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md), who sent the [Hero of Kvatch](Lore_Hero_of_Kvatch.md) to taunt him at his wife's grave in [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433). Enraged, Petilius killed the Hero with a cursed mace, damning himself and allowing Bal to claim his [soul](Lore_Soul.md). The Hero was later returned to life by the Prince to torment Petilius further.

## Brittleshin Hills
The [Brittleshin Hills](Lore_Brittleshin_Hills.md) are a small mountain range of [Falkreath Hold](Lore_Falkreath_Hold.md) north of [Lake Ilinalta](Lore_Lake_Ilinalta.md) that make up the border with [Whiterun Hold](Lore_Whiterun_Hold.md), in the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). The sharp and protruding snowy peaks are dominated by [Bleak Falls Barrow](Lore_Bleak_Falls_Barrow.md), and overlook the origin of the White River, as well as the town of [Riverwood](Lore_Riverwood.md) just across the border in Whiterun Hold. **Brittleshin Pass** allows movement through the mountains.

## Broken Cape
The [Broken Cape](Lore_Broken_Cape.md) is a cape found on the coast of [Winterhold](Lore_Winterhold_(region).md), in the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). The city of [Winterhold](Lore_Winterhold_(city).md) is located on the northern tip, which is known as [Hsaarik Head](Lore_Hsaarik_Head.md). In the late- [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md), a fleet of Atmorans, led by [Ysgramor](Lore_Ysgramor.md), sailed across the [Sea of Ghosts](Lore_Sea_of_Ghosts.md) and landed on Hsaarik Head after fleeing from a civil war in [Atmora](Lore_Atmora.md). From there, they built their first city, [Saarthal](Lore_Saarthal.md), which was subsequently sacked by the [Snow Elves](Lore_Snow_Elf.md). In its vicinity, northeast of the ruined city, lies Winterhold. Portions of the Broken Cape fell into the Sea of Ghosts because of the [Great Collapse](Lore_Great_Collapse.md) of [4E 122](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_122).

## Brold's Tower
[Brold's Tower](Lore_Brold%27s_Tower.md), also known as the **Wizard's Tower**, is a haunted [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) [ruin](Lore_Ayleid_Ruins.md) found somewhere on [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). It is named for its sole living inhabitant, an eccentric [Nord](Lore_Nord.md) wizard called Brold, who resided here in the [Fourth Era](Lore_Fourth_Era.md).

## Bruk'ra
[Bruk'ra](Lore_Bruk%27ra.md) (currently known as **Brukreich Bridge**) is a historical settlement found in east-central [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md), several leagues from the [Topal Bay](Lore_Topal_Bay.md) to the southeast and the [Tenmar Forest](Lore_Tenmar_Forest.md) to the south. In ancient times, Bruk'ra was one of the sixteen kingdoms of Elsweyr, known for their river-traders and traffickers. Back in those times, it was ruled by the Merchant-Prince.

## Bruma
[Bruma](Lore_Bruma.md) (archaically known as **Bruhmaht**) is a Nibenese city located in the [Jerall Mountains](Lore_Jerall_Mountains.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), north of the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md). Bruma's population is primarily [Nords](Lore_Nord.md), which is reflected in the city's architecture. It is always relatively cold and snow-covered. The city's population includes followers of the [Divines](Lore_Divines.md) as well as those who follow the traditional [Nordic Pantheon](Lore_Gods.md).

The [Silver Road](Lore_Silver_Road.md) connects Bruma to the Imperial City, while the [Orange Road](Lore_Orange_Road.md) connects it to [Chorrol](Lore_Chorrol.md). [Cloud Ruler Temple](Lore_Cloud_Ruler_Temple.md) is located nearby. Bruma has a small sewer system which connects up with the natural caves that run beneath the town. This underground area was used by the Mythic Dawn during the Oblivion Crisis. The deeper levels of the sewers are home to [trolls](Lore_Troll.md). The city also houses the Great Chapel of the youngest of the [Nine Divines](Lore_Nine_Divines.md), [Talos](Lore_Talos.md), which dominates the center of town. **Note**: The following references are considered to be [unofficial sources](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/General:Unofficial_Lore). They are included to round off this article and may not be authoritative or conclusive.

## Bthuand
[Bthuand](Lore_Bthuand.md) is a [Dwarven ruin](Lore_Dwemer_Ruins.md) located in the north-central [Ashlands](Lore_Ashlands.md) of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md) in the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md), west of the Daedric shrine of [Zergonipal](Lore_Zergonipal.md). It was abandoned in [1E 700](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_700) when its original [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md) inhabitants mysteriously disappeared.

Circa [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), Vonos Bero, a member of the Seven Secretives, came to the ruins to obtain an important clockwork device stolen from the [Clockwork City](Lore_Clockwork_City.md). This item had been taken to Bthuand, where a number of [Clockwork Apostles](Lore_Clockwork_Apostles.md) were slain after attempting to retrieve it. The device was shattered when Vonos got into an argument with the smuggler that led into a brawl. Vonos had been followed to the ruins by a [Morag Tong](Lore_Morag_Tong.md) assassin named [Naryu Virian](Lore_Naryu_Virian.md), who executed him soon afterwards. As of 2E 582, the ruins of Bthuand were guarded by [Dwarven Centurions](Lore_Dwarven_Centurion.md).

By [3E 427](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_427), the ruins were still guarded by Dwarven Centurions. [Ghosts](Lore_Dwarven_Spectre.md) of the long-gone Dwemer could be encountered there as well. Mastrius, a [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) [vampire](Lore_Vampire.md) who had been imprisoned for centuries in the Salvel Ancestral Tomb near [Red Mountain](Lore_Red_Mountain.md) by [Azura](Lore_Azura.md), required the Daedric artifact [Spellbreaker](Lore_Spellbreaker.md) to break the curse and escape the tomb. Circa 3E 427, the weakened Mastrius was discovered by [a fellow vampire](Lore_Nerevarine.md) who agreed to help free him. At this time, Spellbreaker could be found within Bthuand, next to the skeleton of its previous owner who had died in a cave-in. Mastrius used the shield as a conduit for his spell and broke Azura's curse, returning to full strength. He then betrayed his liberator and was slain, allowing his accomplice to claim Spellbreaker.

## Bthzark
[Bthzark](Lore_Bthzark.md) is a [Dwarven](Lore_Dwemer.md) ruin found in [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), on the island of [Stros M'Kai](Lore_Stros_M%27Kai.md). The smiths of Bthzark were skilled in the art of [tonal architecture](Lore_Tonal_Architecture.md). Bthzark was built by the [Rourken](Lore_Rourken.md) clan, who left [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md) to settle the wastes of Hammerfell after refusing to join the [First Council](Lore_First_Council.md). The complex was built with a distinct architectural style, and its many machines are powered entirely by a system of steam pipes. Bthzark also contained a large mine, which became partially flooded with lava at some point.

The complex was left abandoned after the Dwemer's disappearance in [1E 700](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_700) and fell into ruins, although one of the entrances was sealed shut and prevented looting. The Dwemer presence on the island left a long-standing influence, inspiring the use of Dwemer pipes in [Port Hunding](Lore_Port_Hunding.md) and allowing the island's future inhabitants to study the stars using the Dwemer observatory near [Saintsport](Lore_Saintsport.md).

Typically initiates of the [Order of the Scarab](Lore_Order_of_the_Scarab.md) must go to Bthzark and "wrestle its mechanical men back into shape" before they can join the Knights of the Scarab.

## Buckmoth Legion Fort
An [Imperial Legion](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md) outpost located due south of [Ald'ruhn](Lore_Ald%27ruhn.md) and west of the Ramimilk shrine, on the road to [Ghostgate](Lore_Ghostgate.md). It offered many services to the populace, including an [Imperial Cult](Lore_Imperial_Cult.md) altar.<sup>[[4]](#cite_note-Morrowind-4)</sup>

## Buraniim Isle
[Buraniim Isle](Lore_Buraniim_Isle.md) is a small island in central [Auridon](Lore_Auridon.md), located off the coast from the town of [Mathiisen](Lore_Mathiisen.md). It is home to **Buraniim**, the ruin that was once part of the greater **Buraniim Sea-Complex** built by the [Ancients](Lore_Ancients.md) from which the isle gets its name.

The shallows of Buraniim Isle are rife with a unique subspecies of [ornaug](Lore_Ornaug.md). Known for being vibrant an playful, these blue and yellow ornaugs have been known to splash in the surf to attract the curiosity of would-be prey.

## History
At some point during or after the early [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md) the site of Buraniim was built on the isle by the Ancients, the ancestors of the Auridon [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md). It was once a hub and presumably a part of a larger structure and a sea-complex that extended out into the sea. Over the years, during the times of the outburst of the [Thrassian Plague](Lore_Thrassian_Plague.md) the complex was abandoned and as of [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582) it was primarily used as a retreat from the city life in nearby [Skywatch](Lore_Skywatch.md). [Errinorne Isle](Lore_Errinorne_Isle.md) was once part of this complex.

The ruins were briefly reoccupied in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582) by the [Worm Cult](Lore_Worm_Cult.md) and the Daedric minions of [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md), acting as a lair within which the Daedra could sacrifice mortal souls to fill the [Mortuum Vivicus](Lore_Mortuum_Vivicus.md). They were also making preparations to construct a [Dark Anchor](Lore_Dark_Anchor.md) in the isle. This was discovered by the scholar and author, [Fenlil the Wayfarer](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Fenlil_the_Wayfarer) who intended to inform the local authorities about this. It is unknown however if he succeeded in this endeavor. The Daedra were swiftly purged from island, however by the [Fighters Guild](Lore_Fighters_Guild.md), which was under the effective control of [Meridia](Lore_Meridia.md) at the time.

## References
1. [^](#cite_ref-1) [*History of the Fighters Guild*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:History_of_the_Fighters_Guild)
2. [^](#cite_ref-2) [Blighted Isle](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Blighted_Isle) in [ESO](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Online)
3. [^](#cite_ref-TDE_3-0) [*Thalmor Dossier: Esbern*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Thalmor_Dossier__Esbern)
4. [^](#cite_ref-Morrowind_4-0) Events of [*Morrowind*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Morrowind:Morrowind)