# Gods P

[Overview](Lore_Gods.md) | [A](Lore_Gods_A.md) [B](Lore_Gods_B.md) [C](Lore_Gods_C.md) [D](Lore_Gods_D.md) [E](Lore_Gods_E.md) [F](Lore_Gods_F.md) [G](Lore_Gods_G.md) [H](Lore_Gods_H.md) [I](Lore_Gods_I.md) [J](Lore_Gods_J.md) [K](Lore_Gods_K.md) [L](Lore_Gods_L.md) [M](Lore_Gods_M.md) [N](Lore_Gods_N.md) [O](Lore_Gods_O.md) P [Q](Lore_Gods_Q.md) [R](Lore_Gods_R.md) [S](Lore_Gods_S.md) [T](Lore_Gods_T.md) [U](Lore_Gods_U.md) [V](Lore_Gods_V.md) [W](Lore_Gods_W.md) [X](Lore_Gods_X.md) [Y](Lore_Gods_Y.md) [Z](Lore_Gods_Z.md)
---

#### Padomay
**Padomay**, originally called **PSJJJJ** in Ehlnofex (or Aldmeris), also called **Padu**, **Padhome**, [**Sithis**](Lore_Sithis.md), **Is-Not**, **Akel**, **El**, **The Dark**, **Serpent**, **Evil**, [**Kota**](Lore_Kota.md), and [**Fadomai**](Lore_Fadomai.md), is the quintessential form of change. One of the two primal forces, the other being [Anu](Lore_Anu.md), Padomay is the personification of the primordial force of **Chaos** and **Change** who dwells in the [Void](Lore_Void.md).

In relation to Anu, Padomay is also known as **His Other** and **his double**.

#### Pelinal Whitestrake
[Pelinal Whitestrake](Lore_Pelinal_Whitestrake.md) was a legendary (and infamous) [Demigod](Lore_Demigod.md) who fought alongside his fellow Demigod [Morihaus](Lore_Morihaus.md) as the champion of Queen [Alessia](Lore_Alessia.md) during the [Alessian Slave Rebellion](Lore_Alessian_Slave_Rebellion.md) of the early [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md). He possessed the [Crusader's Relics](Lore_Crusader%27s_Relics.md), which were given to him by the [Eight Divines](Lore_Eight_Divines.md). Legends say he often had stretches of homicidal madness, during which he slew indiscriminately and took a toll on the very landscape itself.

Pelinal is also supposedly but one name for the "legendary immortal hero" who, according to legend, conquered all of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) by himself in the late [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md). However, he never united the various provinces he conquered under a single banner, as he was known to wander, build up kingdoms, and inevitably abandon them to wander again. Though some doubt has been placed on the idea of all these feats belonging to the same individual.

For more information, see the [main lore article](Lore_Pelinal_Whitestrake.md).

#### Peryite
[Peryite](Lore_Peryite.md) (listen Link ⏵) is one of the [Daedric Princes](Lore_Daedric_Princes.md) that dwell within the realm of [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md). As the **Daedric Prince of Pestilence**, his sphere of influence includes tasks, natural order (not to be confused with the perfect order of [Jyggalag](Lore_Jyggalag.md)), contamination, and pestilence. Peryite's sphere is described as "ordering the lowest orders of Oblivion". He is also known as the **Daedra of Pestilence and Plague**, the **Taskmaster**, the **Blighted Lord**, **Figuring father**, the **Lord of Infection and Pestilence**, the **Bringer of Disease and Pestilence**, the **Lord of the Natural Order**, the **Master of Tasks**, and the **Lord of Abundant Pus and Bountiful Vomit**. Peryite "blesses" his worshipers with [diseases](Lore_Disease.md), and is considered one of the more destructive Princes. He is typically depicted as a green four-legged [dragon](Lore_Dragon.md), and often takes on the form of one, with the likeness to [Akatosh](Lore_Akatosh.md) seen as some primordial and curious jest. Peryite occasionally appears as ghostly apparitions of vermin, such as [skeevers](Lore_Skeever.md). The coiling, snake-like dragon and the skeever are two of Peryite's most sacred symbols. The [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) goddess [Kyne](Lore_Kyne.md) is said to give Peryite the spirits of skeevers when they die. According to some of his followers, Peryite abhors heterogeny, thus offerings of disease given to him should always be of the same strain.

Peryite is considered one of the weakest of the Princes.

For more information, see the [main lore article](Lore_Peryite.md).

#### Phen
[Phen](Lore_Phen.md) was an obscure entity of importance to the inhabitants of the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md) region. Phen was worshipped there as of the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md). Shrines to him, known as Shelters of Phen could be found in regions of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md) such as [Abibon-Gora](Lore_Abibon-Gora.md), [Alik'r](Lore_Alik%27r.md), [Bergama](Lore_Bergama_(barony).md), [Dragontail Mountains](Lore_Dragontail_Mountains.md), [Lainlyn](Lore_Lainlyn_(barony).md), [Satakalaam](Lore_Satakalaam_(county).md), and [Totambu](Lore_Totambu.md). Shelters of Phen were also found in the province of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md), in regions such as [Kingdom of Daggerfall](Lore_Daggerfall_(kingdom).md), [Dwynnen](Lore_Dwynnen.md), [Glenumbra Moors](Lore_Glenumbra_Moors_(barony).md), [Ilessan Hills](Lore_Ilessan_Hills.md), [Shalgora](Lore_Shalgora.md), [Wrothgarian Mountains](Lore_Wrothgarian_Mountains.md), and [Ykalon](Lore_Ykalon.md).

#### Phynaster
[Phynaster the Guardian](Lore_Phynaster.md), the **Preserver**, the **Wayfarer**, is the hero-god of the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md). While he is not part of the main Aldmeri Pantheon, his worship persists through significant cults throughout the province. He taught the [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md) to extend their lives a hundred more years, simply by shortening their stride. Phynaster is associated with the [Ring of Phynaster](Lore_Ring_of_Phynaster.md), that comes and goes throughout time between different warriors. It is said to be the source of his longevity, but it may have also been his undoing. It was rumored that the [Wharf Rats](Lore_Wharf_Rats.md) killed Phynaster for his ring and when he was buried at the [Forest of Elborn](Lore_Forest_of_Elborn.md), they took it for themselves.

#### Pocket Cabal
The [Pocket Cabal](Lore_Pocket_Cabal.md) was one of the eight [monster children](Lore_Monster_Children.md) from the unholy union of [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md) and [Vivec](Lore_Vivec.md), who initially escaped being slain. It is said to have hidden itself in the spell-lists of the great [Chimeri](Lore_Chimer.md) wizards of the [extreme east](Lore_Telvanni_Peninsula.md), which later became the [House Telvanni](Lore_House_Telvanni.md). Vivec ventured to slay the monster, but the tenuous sense-fabric he wore drew out a giant bug. Inside the insect was the most powerful eastern wizard, who scolded Vivec for creating the monster. In retaliation, Vivec stabbed the wizard through his soul. The monster was eventually destroyed by Vivec, who contained it in a dome-head demon. [Sotha Sil](Lore_Sotha_Sil.md) was fascinated by the creature and asked Vivec if he may treasure it. Vivec gifted them it but warned Seht never to release it into the middle world.