# Biography of Queen Barenziah

| Book Compilation | |
| --- | --- |
| Seen In: | - [Morrowind](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Morrowind:Biography_of_Queen_Barenziah) <br> - [Oblivion](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Biography_of_Queen_Barenziah) <br> - [Skyrim](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Skyrim:Biography_of_Queen_Barenziah) |
| Note | |
| This is a compilation of books assembled for easier reading. | |

Biography of Queen Barenziah **by [Stern Gamboge](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Stern_Gamboge), Imperial Scribe** *The life history of Queen Barenziah*
---
*Note: This is a series of books that exists in [Skyrim](Skyrim_Skyrim.md), [Oblivion](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Oblivion) and [Morrowind](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Morrowind:Morrowind). Their inventory names are "Biography of Barenziah", although the internal title of each volume is "Biography of Queen Barenziah". The Oblivion and Morrowind versions are identical other than slight differences in how each volume is named (see individual volumes for details of names). There is also a similar, but not identical, series of books in [Daggerfall](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Daggerfall:Daggerfall). See * [Biography of Queen Barenziah](Lore_Biography_of_Queen_Barenziah_(Daggerfall).md) * for the Daggerfall version.*

*Biography of Queen Barenziah is a biographical text of Queen Barenziah's life from her birth, up until her life as Queen of Wayrest, as in the events in Daggerfall. The biography also tells of her involvement with, and briefly summarizes the events of [Arena](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Arena:Arena).*

*Those interested in the life of Queen Barenziah may also want to read * [The Real Barenziah](Lore_The_Real_Barenziah.md) * (or the Daggerfall version at * [The Real Barenziah](Lore_The_Real_Barenziah_(Daggerfall).md) *), which provides a more detailed and probably not officially sanctioned version of her life.*

---

## *[Volume 1](Lore_Biography_of_Barenziah,_v_1.md)*
Late in the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), a girl-child, [Barenziah](Lore_Barenziah.md), was born to the rulers of the kingdom of [Mournhold](Lore_Mournhold.md) in what is now the Imperial Province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). She was reared in all the luxury and security befitting a royal [Dark Elven](Lore_Dunmer.md) child until she reached five years of age. At that time, His Excellency [Tiber Septim](Lore_Tiber_Septim.md) I, the first Emperor of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md), demanded that the decadent rulers of Morrowind yield to him and institute imperial reforms. Trusting to their vaunted magic, the Dark Elves impudently refused until Tiber Septim's army was on the borders. An [Armistice](Lore_Armistice.md) was hastily signed by the now-eager Dunmer, but not before there were several battles, one of which laid waste to Mournhold, now called [Almalexia](Lore_Almalexia_(city).md).

Little Princess Barenziah and her nurse were found among the wreckage. The Imperial General [Symmachus](Lore_Symmachus.md), himself a Dark Elf, suggested to Tiber Septim that the child might someday be valuable, and she was therefore placed with a loyal supporter who had recently retired from the [Imperial Army](Lore_Imperial_Army.md).

[Sven Advensen](Lore_Sven_Advensen.md) had been granted the title of Count upon his retirement; his fiefdom, [Darkmoor](Lore_Darkmoor.md), was a small town in central [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). Count Sven and his wife reared the princess as their own daughter, seeing to it that she was educated appropriately-and more importantly, that the imperial virtues of obedience, discretion, loyalty, and piety were instilled in the child. In short, she was made fit to take her place as a member of the new ruling class of Morrowind.

The girl Barenziah grew in beauty, grace, and intelligence. She was sweet-tempered, a joy to her adoptive parents and their five young sons, who loved her as their elder sister. Other than her appearance, she differed from young girls of her class only in that she had a strong empathy for the woods and fields, and was wont to escape her household duties to wander there at times.

Barenziah was happy and content until her sixteenth year, when a wicked orphan stable-boy, whom she had befriended out of pity, told her he had overheard a conspiracy between her guardian, Count Sven, and a [Redguard](Lore_Redguard.md) visitor to sell her as a concubine in [Rihad](Lore_Rihad.md), as no [Nord](Lore_Nord.md) or [Breton](Lore_Breton.md) would marry her on account of her black skin, and no Dark Elf would have her because of her foreign upbringing.

"Whatever shall I do?" the poor girl said, weeping and trembling, for she had been brought up in innocence and trust, and it never occurred to her that her friend the stable-boy would lie to her.

The wicked boy, who was called Straw, said that she must run away if she valued her virtue, but that he would come with her as her protector. Sorrowfully, Barenziah agreed to this plan; and that very night, she disguised herself as a boy and the pair escaped to the nearby city of [Whiterun](Lore_Whiterun.md). After a few days there, they managed to get jobs as guards for a disreputable merchant caravan. The caravan was heading east by side roads in a mendacious attempt to elude the lawful tolls charged on the imperial highways. Thus the pair eluded pursuit until they reached the city of [Rifton](Lore_Riften.md), where they ceased their travels for a time. They felt safe in Rifton, close as it was to the Morrowind border so that Dark Elves were enough of a common sight.

## *[Volume 2](Lore_Biography_of_Barenziah,_v_2.md)*
The first volume of this series told the story of [Barenziah](Lore_Barenziah.md)'s origin-heiress to the throne of [Mournhold](Lore_Mournhold.md) until her father rebelled against His Excellency [Tiber Septim](Lore_Tiber_Septim.md) I and brought ruin to the province of Morrowind. Thanks largely to the benevolence of the Emperor, the child Barenziah was not destroyed with her parents, but reared by Count [Sven](Lore_Sven_Advensen.md) of [Darkmoor](Lore_Darkmoor.md), a loyal [Imperial](Lore_Empire.md) trustee. She grew up into a beautiful and pious child, trustful of her guardian's care. This trust, however, was exploited by a wicked orphan stable boy at Count Sven's estate, who with lies and fabrications tricked her into fleeing Darkmoor with him when she turned sixteen. After many adventures on the road, they settled in [Riften](Lore_Riften.md), a [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) city near the [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md) borders.

The stable boy, Straw, was not altogether evil. He loved Barenziah in his own selfish fashion, and deception was the only way he could think of that would cement possession of her. She, of course, felt only friendship toward him, but he was hopeful that she would gradually change her mind. He wanted to buy a small farm and settle down into a comfortable marriage, but at the time his earnings were barely enough to feed and shelter them.

After only a short time in Riften, Straw fell in with a bold, villainous [Khajiit](Lore_Khajiit.md) thief named Therris, who proposed that they rob the Imperial Commandant's house in the central part of the city. Therris said that he had a client, a traitor to the Empire, who would pay well for any information they could gather there. Barenziah happened to overhear this plan and was appalled. She stole away from their rooms and walked the streets of Riften in desperation, torn between her loyalty to the Empire and her love for her friends.

In the end, loyalty to the Empire prevailed over personal friendship, and she approached the Commandant's house, revealed her true identity, and warned him of her friends' plan. The Commandant listened to her tale, praised her courage, and assured her that no harm would come to her. He was none other than General [Symmachus](Lore_Symmachus.md), who had been scouring the countryside in search of her since her disappearance, and had just arrived in Riften, hot in pursuit. He took her into his custody, and informed her that, far from being sent away to be sold, she was to be reinstated as the Queen of Mournhold as soon as she turned eighteen. Until that time, she was to live with the Septim family in the newly built [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md), where she would learn something of government and be presented at the [Imperial Court](Lore_Imperial_Court.md).

At the Imperial City, Barenziah befriended the Emperor Tiber Septim during the middle years of his reign. Tiber's children, particularly his eldest son and heir [Pelagius](Lore_Pelagius_Septim.md), came to love her as a sister. The ballads of the day praised her beauty, chastity, wit, and learning. On her eighteenth birthday, the entire Imperial City turned out to watch her farewell procession preliminary to her return to her native land. Sorrowful as they were at her departure, all knew that she was ready for her glorious destiny as sovereign of the kingdom of Mournhold.

## *[Volume 3](Lore_Biography_of_Barenziah,_v_3.md)*
In the second volume of this series, it was told how [Barenziah](Lore_Barenziah.md) was kindly welcomed to the newly constructed [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md) by the Emperor [Tiber Septim](Lore_Tiber_Septim.md) and his family, who treated her like a long-lost daughter during her almost one-year stay. After several happy months there learning her duties as vassal queen under the Empire, the Imperial General [Symmachus](Lore_Symmachus.md) escorted her to [Mournhold](Lore_Mournhold.md) where she took up her duties as Queen of her people under his wise guidance. Gradually they came to love one another and were married and crowned in a splendid ceremony at which the Emperor himself officiated.

After several hundred years of marriage, a son, [Helseth](Lore_Helseth.md), was born to the royal couple amid celebration and joyous prayer. Although it was not publicly known at the time, it was shortly before this blessed event that the [Staff of Chaos](Lore_Staff_of_Chaos.md) had been stolen from its hiding place deep in the Mournhold mines by a clever, enigmatic bard known only as the [Nightingale](Lore_Jagar_Tharn.md).

Eight years after Helseth's birth, Barenziah bore a daughter, [Morgiah](Lore_Morgiah.md), named after Symmachus' mother, and the royal couple's joy seemed complete. Alas, shortly after that, relations with the Empire mysteriously deteriorated, leading to much civil unrest in Mournhold. After fruitless investigations and attempts at reconciliation, in despair Barenziah took her young children and travelled to the Imperial City herself to seek the ear of then Emperor [Uriel Septim VII](Lore_Uriel_Septim_VII.md). Symmachus remained in Mournhold to deal with the grumbling peasants and annoyed nobility, and do what he could to stave off an impending insurrection.

During her audience with the Emperor, Barenziah, through her magical arts, came to realize to her horror and dismay that the so-called Emperor was an impostor, none other than the bard Nightingale who had stolen the Staff of Chaos. Exercising great self-control she concealed this realization from him. That evening, news came that Symmachus had fallen in battle with the revolting peasants of Mournhold, and that the kingdom had been taken over by the rebels. Barenziah, at this point, did not know where to seek help, or from whom.

The gods, that fateful night, were evidently looking out for her as if in redress of her loss. King [Eadwyre](Lore_Eadwyre.md) of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md), an old friend of Uriel Septim and Symmachus, came by on a social call. He comforted her, pledged his friendship-and furthermore, confirmed her suspicions that the Emperor was indeed a fraud, and none other than [Jagar Tharn](Lore_Jagar_Tharn.md), the [Imperial Battlemage](Lore_Imperial_Battlemage_of_Tamriel.md), and one of the Nightingale's many alter egos. Tharn had supposedly retired into seclusion from public work and installed his assistant, [Ria Silmane](Lore_Ria_Silmane.md), in his stead. The hapless assistant was later put to death under mysterious circumstances-supposedly a plot implicating her had been uncovered, and she had been summarily executed. However, her ghost had appeared to Eadwyre in a dream and revealed to him that the true Emperor had been kidnapped by Tharn and imprisoned in an alternate dimension. Tharn had then used the Staff of Chaos to kill her when she attempted to warn the [Elder Council](Lore_Elder_Council.md) of his nefarious plot.

Together, Eadwyre and Barenziah plotted to gain the false Emperor's confidence. Meanwhile, another friend of Ria's, known only as the [Champion](Lore_Eternal_Champion.md), who apparently possessed great, albeit then untapped, potential, was incarcerated at the [Imperial Dungeons](Lore_Imperial_Dungeons.md). However, she had access to his dreams, and she told him to bide his time until she could devise a plan that would effect his escape. Then he could begin on his mission to unmask the impostor.

Barenziah continued to charm, and eventually befriended, the ersatz Emperor. By contriving to read his secret diary, she learned that he had broken the Staff of Chaos into eight pieces and hidden them in far-flung locations scattered across Tamriel. She managed to obtain a copy of the key to Ria's friend's cell and bribed a guard to leave it there as if by accident. Their Champion, whose name was unknown even to Barenziah and Eadwyre, made his escape through a shift gate Ria had opened in an obscure corner of the Imperial Dungeons using her already failing powers. The Champion was free at last, and almost immediately went to work.

It took Barenziah several more months to learn the hiding places of all eight Staff pieces through snatches of overheard conversation and rare glances at Tharn's diary. Once she had the vital information, however -- which she communicated to Ria forthwith, who in turn passed it on to the Champion-she and Eadwyre lost no time. They fled to [Wayrest](Lore_Wayrest_(kingdom).md), his ancestral kingdom in the province of High Rock, where they managed to fend off the sporadic efforts of Tharn's henchmen to haul them back to the Imperial City, or at the very least obtain revenge. Tharn, whatever else might be said of him, was no one's fool-save perhaps Barenziah's -- and he concentrated most of his efforts toward tracking down and destroying the Champion.

As all now know, the courageous, indefatigable, and forever nameless Champion was successful in reuniting the eight sundered pieces of the Staff of Chaos. With it, he destroyed Tharn and rescued the true Emperor, Uriel Septim VII. Following what has come to be known as the Restoration, a grand state memorial service was held for Symmachus at the Imperial City, befitting the man who had served the [Septim Dynasty](Lore_Septim_Dynasty.md) for so long and so well.

Barenziah and good King Eadwyre had come to care deeply for one another during their trials and adventures, and were married in the same year shortly after their flight from the Imperial City. Her two children from her previous marriage with Symmachus remained with her, and a [regent](Lore_Athyn_Llethan.md) was appointed to rule Mournhold in her absence.

Up to the present time, Queen Barenziah has been in Wayrest with Prince Helseth and Princess Morgiah. She plans to return to Mournhold after Eadwyre's death. Since he was already elderly when they wed, she knows that that event, alas, could not be far off as the Elves reckon time. Until then, she shares in the government of the kingdom of Wayrest with her husband, and seems glad and content with her finally quiet, and happily unremarkable, life.