# Gods V

[Overview](Lore_Gods.md) | [A](Lore_Gods_A.md) [B](Lore_Gods_B.md) [C](Lore_Gods_C.md) [D](Lore_Gods_D.md) [E](Lore_Gods_E.md) [F](Lore_Gods_F.md) [G](Lore_Gods_G.md) [H](Lore_Gods_H.md) [I](Lore_Gods_I.md) [J](Lore_Gods_J.md) [K](Lore_Gods_K.md) [L](Lore_Gods_L.md) [M](Lore_Gods_M.md) [N](Lore_Gods_N.md) [O](Lore_Gods_O.md) [P](Lore_Gods_P.md) [Q](Lore_Gods_Q.md) [R](Lore_Gods_R.md) [S](Lore_Gods_S.md) [T](Lore_Gods_T.md) [U](Lore_Gods_U.md) V [W](Lore_Gods_W.md) [X](Lore_Gods_X.md) [Y](Lore_Gods_Y.md) [Z](Lore_Gods_Z.md)
---

#### Vaermina, Weaver of the Panoply
[Vaermina](Lore_Vaermina.md) (also spelled **Vaernima**), called the **Prince of Dreams and Nightmares**, the **Gifter**, the **Mistress of Nightmares** **and Dark Portents**, the **Lady of Nightmares**, the **Weaver of Dreams**, the **Queen of Nightmares**, **Weaver of the Panoply**, **Daedra Lady of Corruption and Decay**, the **Dreamweaver** and the **Dark Lady** is a [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Prince.md) whose sphere is the realm of dreams and nightmares, and from whose realm evil omens issue forth, as well as corruption and decay. All mortals come under her sway as they sleep. She is considered one of the more "demonic" Daedra in that she is destructive for the sake of causing destruction, her method being torture. She is disgusted by mortals who maintain a moral compass, instead taking delight in those who commit outrageous sins or are unafraid to kill in pursuit of power. Laymen know her for her reputation as the Daedric Prince of nightmares and evil dreams.

Vaermina's [plane of Oblivion](Lore_Planes_of_Oblivion.md) is [Quagmire](Lore_Quagmire.md), described by observers as a nightmarish land. It is said Vaermina hungers for the memories of mortals, collecting them from her citadel at the center of the realm, and leaving them with visions of horror and despair. Every few minutes, reality shifts and becomes ever more horrifying. It is not known what Vaermina does with these memories, but it is assumed to be malevolent.

Vaermina is said to be an enemy of [Ebonarm](Lore_Ebonarm.md), [Boethiah](Lore_Boethiah.md), [Peryite](Lore_Peryite.md), and [Hermaeus Mora](Lore_Hermaeus_Mora.md), but an ally of [Sanguine](Lore_Sanguine.md). She is also at odds with [Azura](Lore_Azura.md). Her summoning day coincides with the [Merchants' Festival](Lore_Merchants_Festival.md), the 10<sup>th</sup> of Sun's Height.

For more information, see the [main lore article](Lore_Vaermina.md).

#### Valia-Sha, the Orange Star
[Valia-Sha](Lore_Valia-Sha.md), **the Orange Star**, **the Burning Bride** is one of the lesser-known [Magna Ge](Lore_Magna_Ge.md), one of the Star-Orphans and an [Anuic](Lore_Anu.md) ur-entity. She was one of [Magnus](Lore_Magnus.md)'s daughters and the sister of [Merid-Nunda](Lore_Merid-Nunda.md), [Mnemo-Li](Lore_Mnemo-Li.md), [Iana-Lor](Lore_Iana-Lor.md), [Xero-Lyg](Lore_Xero-Lyg.md), the eldest [Prime Archon](Lore_Ithelia.md), [Londa-Vera](Lore_Londa-Vera.md), [Sheza-Rana](Lore_Sheza-Rana.md), and [Unala-Se](Lore_Unala-Se.md). Alongside her sisters, she was part of the Nine Coruscations, who followed the parabolas that led away from Magnus and separated from him when he withdrew from the creation of the [Aurbis](Lore_Aurbis.md). Similarly to other Magna Ge she is now synonymous with the [star](Lore_Stars.md), which she created.

In the text authored by Star-Queen Varalias, she is associated with the [element of fire](Lore_Elements.md#Fire) and described as royalty among the Scions of Magnus. She was adored above all other Star Orphans. During the ancient war of an unknown name, she advocated for patience, despite being assigned the most challenging task of all. Breaking through the firmament, she dispersed magicka throughout the nascent realm, journeying far to seek out each individual and extending an invitation to join her kingdoms. To those who agreed, she imparted a part of herself, until so many accepted that she began to fade away. Despite this a possibility of Valia-Sha's light one day returning is also mentioned in the text, and it is said that none can doubt the number of lights in the starry sky.

#### Varmiina, Queen of Nightmares
**Varmiina**, also titled the **Queen of Nightmares** and the **Lost Daughter** appears in some [Khajiiti](Lore_Khajiit.md) traditions as a dark spirit who tests Khajiit during their life. She was said to have been born from [Fadomai](Lore_Fadomai.md)'s fears of losing her children, rather than from one of her litters. Varmiina was eventually killed by [Azurah](Lore_Azurah.md) which lead to her only be able to haunt Khajiit during their dreams.<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-TDS-1)</sup>

#### Vigryl
**Vigryl** (also called **Vir Gil**)<sup>[[2]](#cite_note-KEII-2)</sup> is known as the **God of the Sea** and is worshipped in the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md) area.<sup>[[3]](#cite_note-3)</sup> His temple is known as the Communion of Vir and its knightly order is known as The Tide, praying to Vigryl can bless an area with better weather.<sup>[[4]](#cite_note-4)</sup>

#### Vivec, Master of Morrowind
[Vivec](Lore_Vivec.md) (also spelled **Vivek**), or **Vehk**, was the Warrior-Poet deity of the [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) and **Vi** in the [Alm Si Vi](Lore_Almsivi.md), the Guardian God-King of the holy land of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md) and the ever-vigilant protector from the dark gods of the [Red Mountain](Lore_Red_Mountain.md), the gate to [hell](Lore_Oblivion.md). He is also called the Master of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). Though some aspects of his past are blurred by time and questions surround some of his more controversial choices, Vivec has always represented the spirit and duality of the Dunmer people, which is reflected in his half-Dunmer, half- [Chimer](Lore_Chimer.md) appearance.

The Warrior-Poet spent his long life creating numerous works and wonders. He was a prolific writer, perhaps most notably with the [36 Lessons](Lore_The_36_Lessons_of_Vivec.md), a series of cryptic texts widely open to an incredible amount of speculation and conjecture, primarily to act as a guide for the prophesized [Nerevarine](Lore_Nerevarine.md). Numerous artifacts were associated with the God-King, including his legendary spear [Muatra](Lore_Muatra.md). For hundreds if not thousands of years, he mostly resided at the pinnacle of his Palace in the city to which he lent his own name, [Vivec](Lore_Vivec_(city).md). Hundreds of pilgrims and tourists visited his holy city daily.

He guided and protected the Dunmer until his loss of divinity and subsequent disappearance near the end of the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), a sacrifice he not only accepted, but helped to bring about. The Tribunal Temple would collapse in his absence. The [New Temple](Lore_New_Temple.md) refers to him as **Saint Vivec** and declared him a member of the False Tribunal.

## References
1. [^](#cite_ref-TDS_1-0) [*The Dark Spirits*](Lore_The_Dark_Spirits.md) — [Amun-dro](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Amun-dro.2C_the_Silent_Priest), the Silent Priest
2. [^](#cite_ref-KEII_2-0) [*King Edward, Part 2*](Lore_King_Edward,_Part_2.md) — Anonymous
3. [^](#cite_ref-3) [Shrines](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Daggerfall:Shrines) in *[Daggerfall](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Daggerfall:Daggerfall)*
4. [^](#cite_ref-4) [Faction.txt and text.rsc](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Daggerfall:Daggerfall_Preview) in Daggerfall Preview