# People Y

[Overview](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:People) | [A](Lore_People_A.md) [B](Lore_People_B.md) [C](Lore_People_C.md) [D](Lore_People_D.md) [E](Lore_People_E.md) [F](Lore_People_F.md) [G](Lore_People_G.md) [H](Lore_People_H.md) [I](Lore_People_I.md) [J](Lore_People_J.md) [K](Lore_People_K.md) [L](Lore_People_L.md) [M](Lore_People_M.md) [N](Lore_People_N.md) [O](Lore_People_O.md) [P](Lore_People_P.md) [Q](Lore_People_Q.md) [R](Lore_People_R.md) [S](Lore_People_S.md) [T](Lore_People_T.md) [U](Lore_People_U.md) [V](Lore_People_V.md) [W](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:People_W) [X](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:People_X) Y [Z](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:People_Z)
---

#### Yagak gro-Gluk (fl. 3E 427)
[Yagak gro-Gluk](Lore_Yagak_gro-Gluk.md) was an [Orc](Lore_Orc.md) [smith](Lore_Smithing.md) who played a crucial role in the process of reforging and reigniting the [Trueflame](Lore_Trueflame.md), a legendary [weapon](Lore_Weapons.md) of [Nerevar](Lore_Nerevar.md). He was considered to be among the best weaponsmiths in all of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md), and the best one in [Mournhold](Lore_Mournhold.md) by the [Tribunal](Lore_Tribunal.md) goddess [Almalexia](Lore_Almalexia.md). Yagak was also an owner of a nearly full set of extremely rare [adamantium](Lore_Adamantium.md) armor and a weapon made of the same material.

#### Grandee Yaghoub (fl. c. 1E 808)
[Grandee Yaghoub](Lore_Yaghoub.md), also called **Yaghoub the Seafarer**, was a [Yokudan](Lore_Yokuda.md) from [Yath](Lore_Yath.md) that was the leader of the third warrior-wave of the [Ra Gada](Lore_Ra_Gada.md) circa [1E 808](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_808). Among the [Ansei](Lore_Ansei.md) who he led were the famous and noble "Yaghoub's Thirteen". He and his warrior-sailors landed in [Hegathe](Lore_Hegathe.md) in ships they had brought from [Akos Kasaz](Lore_Akos_Kasaz.md). They brought with them many [Yokudan Chargers](Lore_Yokudan_Charger.md), famous steeds whose descendants are still highly prized. They soon set sail northwest until they rounded [Cape Shira](Lore_Cape_Shira.md), becoming the first of the Ra Gada to discover the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md). Yaghoub decided to make his home there. As they sailed "toward [the Steed](Lore_The_Steed.md) at dawning of the seventeenth of Second Seed", a watchman spotted a suitable harborage, and Yaghoub declared they would build a city there, calling it [Sentinel](Lore_Sentinel.md) after the watchman.

#### Yagrum Bagarn (fl. c. 1E 700 - 3E 427)
[Yagrum Bagarn](Lore_Yagrum_Bagarn.md) is the last known living [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md). Bloated and sick with [Corprus](Lore_Corprus.md) disease, he was under the care of the ancient [Telvanni](Lore_House_Telvanni.md) wizard [Divayth Fyr](Lore_Divayth_Fyr.md), in [Tel Fyr](Lore_Tel_Fyr.md).

#### Yahgrondu ([Dawn Era](Lore_Dawn_Era.md) - [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582))
[Yahgrondu](Lore_Yahgrondu.md) was a red [dragon](Lore_Dragon.md) whose name meant "Seek-Bind-Devour" in the [Dragon Language](Lore_Dragon_Language.md). Little is known of his earlier history. It is possible he originates from [Akavir](Lore_Akavir.md), as it has been said to be the homeland of red Dragons.

At some point, before the foundation of the [Dragonguard](Lore_Dragonguard.md), Yahgrondu ran afoul of a powerful Dragon hunter. [Nahfahlaar](Lore_Nahfahlaar.md) found him injured and cornered, and offered his aid. In exchange, Nahfahlaar demanded that Yahgrondu repay his debt in the future. Yahgrondu was obligated to repay his debt through sosmir, the blood allegiance, and vowed to assist Nahfahlaar in his hour of need. Yahgrondu remained hidden for generations and was not discovered by the Dragonguard.

#### Yashnag gro-Yazgu (?b - [2E 467](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_467))
[Yashnag gro-Yazgu](Lore_Yashnag_gro-Yazgu.md) was an [Orcish](Lore_Orc.md) chieftain best known for establishing a chiefdom in [Falkreath](Lore_Falkreath_Hold.md) during the early- [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). Despite resistance from the High King, he was successful in claiming territory for the Orcs in [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) and ruled for over thirty years. He was eventually killed in battle by Jarl [Hakkvild](Lore_Hakkvild_Yashnag-Slayer.md), whose father had previously been killed by Yashnag, and the [Nords](Lore_Nord.md) who viewed Yashnag's Kingdom as a nuisance celebrated the chief's demise. To the Orcs however, Yashnag is venerated for his might in establishing an Orc kingdom in Skyrim in spite of the ignorant Nords.

#### Trailblazer Yisareh (fl. 2E 582)
[Yisareh](Lore_Yisareh.md) was a [Redguard](Lore_Redguard.md) [mage](Lore_Magic.md), author, adventurer, and advocate of benevolent [necromancy](Lore_Necromancy.md). She also held the distinction of being the first Trailblazer among the [Undaunted](Lore_Undaunted.md).

#### Ylgar (fl. late Merethic Era)
The younger son of [Ysgramor](Lore_Ysgramor.md) and brother of [Yngol](Lore_Yngol.md). He was possessed of an unwavering spirit that drove his singular prowess to overwhelming feats in war. After they all fled back to [Atmora](Lore_Atmora.md) following the [Night of Tears](Lore_Night_of_Tears.md), Ylgar went to the massive shipyards of [Jylkurfyk](Lore_Jylkurfyk.md) at the southern point and commissioned two ships for himself and his brother. He commanded the [Darumzu](Lore_Darumzu.md), and his brother the [Harakk](Lore_Harakk.md), which were the names of the two favored [stars](Lore_Stars.md) of their heavens. He became a great recruiter, and brought many fine warriors such as [Grosta](Lore_Grosta.md), [Froa](Lore_Froa.md), and [Adrimk](Lore_Adrimk.md) to the cause of reclaiming [Mereth](Lore_Mereth.md) from the treacherous [elves](Lore_Mer.md). The Darumzu made landfall at [Hsaarik Head](Lore_Hsaarik_Head.md) late due to a storm, and Ylgar disembarked to discover that his brother had not survived the journey.<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-SOTR2-1)</sup> It's said that one of his greatest accomplishments was taking up the mantle of leadership after Ysgramor's death. Were it not for his commanding presence, many believe the [Companions](Lore_Companions.md) would have fallen apart.<sup>[[2]](#cite_note-ON-2)</sup>

#### Honorable Yngmaer Raven-Quill, the Historian Royal (fl. 2E 580 - 2E 582)
**Honorable** [Yngmaer Raven-Quill](Lore_Yngmaer_Raven-Quill.md) was a [Nord](Lore_Nord.md) scholar, author, and a prominent member of the [Bards College](Lore_Bards_College.md). Within the college, she held the esteemed position of **Historian Royal**. Among her works was *[The Second Akaviri Invasion](Lore_The_Second_Akaviri_Invasion.md)*, a text dedicated to the description of the [Second Akaviri Invasion](Lore_Second_Akaviri_Invasion.md) of [Kamal](Lore_Kamal_(race).md) and how Nords, [Argonians](Lore_Argonian.md), and [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) defended the eastern [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) from Kamali forces.

#### Yngol (fl. late Merethic Era)
[Yngol](Lore_Yngol.md) was the son of [Ysgramor](Lore_Ysgramor.md) and older brother of [Ylgar](Lore_Ylgar.md). He was a brave strategist who defeated enemies before they even knew the battle had begun. He was also purportedly the greatest [blacksmith](Lore_Smithing.md) the [Atmorans](Lore_Atmora.md) had ever known.

After the human city of [Saarthal](Lore_Saarthal.md) was sacked by the [Elves](Lore_Snow_Elf.md), in an event known as the [Night of Tears](Lore_Night_of_Tears.md), Yngol fled back to Atmora with his father and brother. According to [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) myth, he forged [Wuuthrad](Lore_Wuuthrad.md), Ysgramor's legendary battleaxe, on the deck of the fleeing ship the same night and presented it to his father.

After returning to Atmora, Ysgramor sent Yngol and his brother to recruit the bravest warriors of the land and form the [Five Hundred Companions](Lore_Five_Hundred_Companions.md). During the Return, he commanded a ship called the Harakk, but it was lost during the Storm of Separation just before they arrived at [Hsaarik Head](Lore_Hsaarik_Head.md). It was eventually found along the shore, but Yngol was dead. It was a devastating loss to the Five Hundred Companions. It is said that Ysgramor wept in his grief and slew a dozen beasts, burning them in honor of his fallen son. A [barrow-hill](Lore_Yngol_Barrow.md) was dug in the [Atmoran](Lore_Atmora.md) tradition, and Yngol was laid to rest with rites and honors among his clansmen far below the rocky face of Hsaarik Head, the first of the Children of the Sky to perish in [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). Yngol's resting place ultimately determined the placement of [Windhelm](Lore_Windhelm.md) and the Palace of the Kings, as Ysgramor wanted to be able to view his son's resting place from the windows of his palace.

In [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201), the [Last Dragonborn](Lore_Last_Dragonborn.md) explored his tomb and encountered the ghostly shade of Yngol. After defeating the spirit, Yngol's ancient enchanted helmet was retrieved from his skeletal remains.

#### Yoregg the Bastard (fl. before 2E 582)
[Yoregg the Bastard](Lore_Yoregg_the_Bastard.md) (formerly known as **Yoregg Grass-Grazer**) was an infamous [Nord](Lore_Nord.md) that lived in the city of [Windhelm](Lore_Windhelm.md). Yoregg held an infamous reputation, attaining the nickname, *"the Bastard."* He was known for being a scoundrel, a crook, and for treating everyone as total garbage, a proud-to-be, bastard. In his lifetime, he was one of the wealthiest, yet oldest people in Windhelm.

#### Saint Yosito (fl. before 2E 582)
**Saint ** [Yosito](Lore_Yosito.md) was a revered philosophical figure among the [Khajiit](Lore_Khajiit.md).

Yosito attained sainthood at some point before [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582). Little is known of their life, but the sentence, *"The ascent of the body is nothing compared to that of the soul,"* was attributed to them. Their teachings were respected by the monks of the [Whispering Claw](Lore_Whispering_Claw.md).

#### ¥R (fl. 2E 864)
[¥R.](Lore_%C2%A5R.md) (fl. [2E 864](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_864)), whose full name is unknown, was a well-traveled [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md) individual with a vague role within the (alleged) [Second Aldmeri Dominion](Lore_Aldmeri_Dominion.md) as the military attaché for the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md), while his father and uncle were councilors on the [Thalmor](Lore_Thalmor.md).

#### Yric Flowdys (fl. c. 1E 900)
Captain **Yric Flowdys** was the founder of [House Dorell](Lore_House_Dorell.md) and the city of [Northpoint](Lore_Northpoint.md) around [1E 900](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_900).<sup>[[3]](#cite_note-Furn Coin-3)</sup>

Originally a [Breton](Lore_Breton.md) trader, he operated a summer route of shipping from [Daggerfall](Lore_Daggerfall.md) to [Solitude](Lore_Solitude.md). After realizing the waters could easily accommodate large vessels, and that the location along the trade route made for a perfect waystation where traders could resupply, he set about building the city, starting with the docks. Soon after building the docks, Captain Flowdys oversaw the addition of a small walled keep and warehouse in the heights of Dore Elard, to the east of the growing port-of-call. Before long, the town bustled with activity, and Flowdys, realizing the success of his venture, took the name of the mountain as his new family name.<sup>[[4]](#cite_note-NAA-4)</sup> He had a few hundred gold coins specially minted to commemorate the city's completion, but by the mid- [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md) most remained in private collections.<sup>[[3]](#cite_note-Furn Coin-3)</sup>

He and his descendants continued to grow their maritime endeavors, as well as develop and invest in the port and surrounding lands, eventually leasing plots to farmers and establishing new sources of income.<sup>[[4]](#cite_note-NAA-4)</sup>

#### Ysgramor (fl. late Merethic Era)
[Ysgramor](Lore_Ysgramor.md) (sometimes **Ysgramoor**, **Ysgrimnoor**, or **Ysgrim**), known as **Ysgramor the Invader**, **Ysgramor the Returned**, the **Harbinger of us all**, **Lord**, **High King**, and **Hoary King** was an [Atmoran](Lore_Atmora.md) who came to [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) before recorded history as a refugee fleeing civil war in Atmora. He is generally regarded as the first human ruler and king of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md).

Some [Elven](Lore_Mer.md) scholars insist Ysgramor was responsible for unspecified "provocations and blasphemies" that led to the genocide known as the [Night of Tears](Lore_Night_of_Tears.md), when the human settlement [Saarthal](Lore_Saarthal.md) was attacked by the [Snow Elves](Lore_Snow_Elves.md) and all humans purportedly were slain except Ysgramor and his two sons, [Yngol](Lore_Yngol.md) and [Ylgar](Lore_Ylgar.md), though some scholars believe this attack was unprovoked. Ysgramor fled back to Atmora, gathered the legendary [Five Hundred Companions](Lore_Five_Hundred_Companions.md), then sailed back to [Hsaarik Head](Lore_Hsaarik_Head.md) and drove the Elves from Skyrim and [Solstheim](Lore_Solstheim.md), cementing himself as a "culture hero" of the [Nords](Lore_Nord.md). He wielded the axe [Wuuthrad](Lore_Wuuthrad.md) in battle and rode upon a [Storm Atronach Bear](Lore_Storm_Atronach.md) conjured for him by his personal [Clever Man](Lore_Clever_Folk.md), Alabar the Oddly-Colored.

Since he is the first known human to transcribe Nordic speech using Elven principles of writing, Ysgramor is credited with being the first human historian. Because of his exploits, he is known as "the first Harbinger, the first Man, [and] the bringer of Words", and the modern-day [Companions](Lore_Companions.md) still revere him as their only true leader. His progeny ruled Skyrim until [1E 369](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_369), when the death of [King Borgas](Lore_Borgas.md) brought an end to his direct line of known heirs. However, his bloodline survived, and he is still believed to be the wellspring from whom all Nordic kings are descended. For more information, see the [lore article](Lore_Ysgramor.md).

#### Ysmir, the Dragon of the North
**Ysmir**, the "**Dragon of the North**", is the [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) Name of Kings.<sup>[[5]](#cite_note-TTM-5)</sup><sup>[[6]](#cite_note-PGE1C-6)</sup> As such, any given use of the term could be referring to one of several historical figures depending on context, or even all of them generally. Ysmir was described by [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) scholars as the Nordic aspect of [Talos](Lore_Talos.md).<sup>[[7]](#cite_note-VOF-7)</sup> [Tiber Septim](Lore_Tiber_Septim.md) was ordained Ysmir, Dragon of the North by the Greybeards,<sup>[[6]](#cite_note-PGE1C-6)</sup> as was the [Last Dragonborn](Lore_Last_Dragonborn.md) over 600 years later. In the [Dragon Language](Lore_Dragon_Language.md), it is "Ysmir, Dovahsebrom".<sup>[[8]](#cite_note-Skyrim-8)</sup>

Ysmir was often used like a first name for High King [Wulfharth](Lore_Wulfharth.md) of Skyrim, the earliest known use of the term.<sup>[[9]](#cite_note-TAH-9)</sup><sup>[[10]](#cite_note-RTR-10)</sup> However, legends tell of the Nords bestowing the title upon him (possibly in reference to his [Atmoran](Lore_Atmora.md) origins).<sup>[[11]](#cite_note-FSOKW-11)</sup> [Vivec](Lore_Vivec.md) wrote that Ysmir "always appears as a great bearded king",<sup>[[12]](#cite_note-36L9-12)</sup> and "Ysmir's beard!" is a common exclamation among Nords.<sup>[[8]](#cite_note-Skyrim-8)</sup>

## References
1. [^](#cite_ref-SOTR2_1-0) [*Songs of the Return, Vol 2*](Lore_Songs_of_the_Return,_Vol_2.md)
2. [^](#cite_ref-ON_2-0) [Skald Svari](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Skald_Svari)'s dialogue in [ESO](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Online)
3. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-Furn Coin_3-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-Furn Coin_3-1)***</sup> [Northpoint Founding Coin](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Rivenspire_Antiquities#Northpoint_Founding_Coin) antiquity codex entry in [ESO](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Online)
4. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-NAA_4-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-NAA_4-1)***</sup> [*Northpoint: An Assessment*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Northpoint__An_Assessment) — [Chancellor Regina Troivois](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Chancellor_Regina_Troivois)
5. [^](#cite_ref-TTM_5-0) [*The Talos Mistake*](Lore_The_Talos_Mistake.md) — [Leonora Venatus](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Leonora_Venatus)
6. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-PGE1C_6-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-PGE1C_6-1)***</sup> [*Pocket Guide to the Empire, 1st Edition: Cyrodiil*](Lore_Pocket_Guide_to_the_Empire,_1st_Edition_Cyrodiil.md) — [Imperial Geographical Society](Lore_Imperial_Geographical_Society.md), [2E 864](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_864)
7. [^](#cite_ref-VOF_7-0) [*Varieties of Faith...*](Lore_Varieties_of_Faith....md) — [Brother Mikhael Karkuxor](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Brother_Mikhael_Karkuxor) of the Imperial College
8. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-Skyrim_8-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-Skyrim_8-1)***</sup> Events of *[Skyrim](Skyrim_Skyrim.md)*
9. [^](#cite_ref-TAH_9-0) [*The Arcturian Heresy*](Lore_The_Arcturian_Heresy.md) — [The Underking](Lore_Underking.md), [Ysmir](Lore_Ysmir.md) Kingmaker
10. [^](#cite_ref-RTR_10-0) [*Rislav The Righteous*](Lore_Rislav_The_Righteous.md) — [Sinjin](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Sinjin)
11. [^](#cite_ref-FSOKW_11-0) [*Five Songs of King Wulfharth*](Lore_Five_Songs_of_King_Wulfharth.md)
12. [^](#cite_ref-36L9_12-0) [*36 Lessons of Vivec, Sermon 9*](Lore_36_Lessons_of_Vivec,_Sermon_9.md) — [Vivec](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Vivec)