# Gods X

[Overview](Lore_Gods.md) | [A](Lore_Gods_A.md) [B](Lore_Gods_B.md) [C](Lore_Gods_C.md) [D](Lore_Gods_D.md) [E](Lore_Gods_E.md) [F](Lore_Gods_F.md) [G](Lore_Gods_G.md) [H](Lore_Gods_H.md) [I](Lore_Gods_I.md) [J](Lore_Gods_J.md) [K](Lore_Gods_K.md) [L](Lore_Gods_L.md) [M](Lore_Gods_M.md) [N](Lore_Gods_N.md) [O](Lore_Gods_O.md) [P](Lore_Gods_P.md) [Q](Lore_Gods_Q.md) [R](Lore_Gods_R.md) [S](Lore_Gods_S.md) [T](Lore_Gods_T.md) [U](Lore_Gods_U.md) [V](Lore_Gods_V.md) [W](Lore_Gods_W.md) X [Y](Lore_Gods_Y.md) [Z](Lore_Gods_Z.md)
---

#### Xarxes, God of Ancestry and Secret Knowledge
[Xarxes](Lore_Xarxes.md), also known as the **Ageless One** and the **One Who Watches**, is the god of ancestry and secret knowledge. He began as a scribe to [Auri-El](Lore_Auri-El.md) and has kept track of all [Aldmeri](Lore_Aldmer.md) accomplishments, large and small, since the beginning of time. He created his wife, [Oghma](Lore_Oghma.md), from his favorite moments in history. He is worshipped by [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md) and [Bosmer](Lore_Bosmer.md), and has been equated with [Arkay](Lore_Arkay.md) and [Tu'whacca](Lore_Tu%27whacca.md) as the god of death by some scholars. Though Bosmer worship of the deity as distinct alongside Arkay, disagrees with this syncretism. [Hermaeus Mora](Lore_Hermaeus_Mora.md) claimed that the knowledge he gave to Xarxes was recorded in the [Oghma Infinium](Lore_Oghma_Infinium.md) and that Xarxes was a loyal servant to him. He was an author of the Aldmeriad, the great origin saga of the Elves and commanded the Mer to keep records of their lives in form of their personal everscriven scrolls, known as Oghmas. The scholar-priests of the divine scribe, secretive though they are, are said to preserve [an ancient tongue long forgotten to any but their order](Lore_Linguistics.md).

#### Xen
[Xen](Lore_Xen.md) is an [et'Ada](Lore_Et%27Ada.md) recognized by the [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md). In the myth *The Heart of the World*, which is also compiled within *The Monomyth*, it is stated that [Anu](Lore_Anu.md), the eternal and primordial force of order, created [Auriel](Lore_Auriel.md), the "[soul](Lore_Soul.md) of his soul". Auriel then bled through the [Aurbis](Lore_Aurbis.md), the primordial realm of existence, giving rise to a new force: [time](Lore_Time.md). With the passage of time, various aspects of the Aurbis began to understand their own natures and limitations.

One such aspect was Xen, who recognized his own nature and chose to take his own name. Xen is listed alongside other prominent figures like [Mara](Lore_Mara.md) and [Magnus](Lore_Magnus.md), and notably, [Lorkhan](Lore_Lorkhan.md). However, the Altmer view Lorkhan differently, seeing him not as an embodiment of a fundamental nature, but rather as a "limit"—a boundary or constraint, as opposed to a defining force like the others.

#### Xero-Lyg
[Xero-Lyg](Lore_Xero-Lyg.md), ** the Black Star**, **the Orphan Opposite** is one of the lesser-known [Magna Ge](Lore_Magna_Ge.md), one of the Star-Orphans and an [Anuic](Lore_Anu.md) ur-entity. She was one of [Magnus](Lore_Magnus.md)'s daughters and the sister of [Merid-Nunda](Lore_Merid-Nunda.md), [Mnemo-Li](Lore_Mnemo-Li.md), [Iana-Lor](Lore_Iana-Lor.md), [Unala-Se](Lore_Unala-Se.md), the [Prime Archon](Lore_Ithelia.md), [Londa-Vera](Lore_Londa-Vera.md), [Sheza-Rana](Lore_Sheza-Rana.md), and [Valia-Sha](Lore_Valia-Sha.md). Alongside her sisters, she was part of the Nine Coruscations, who followed the parabolas that led away from Magnus and separated from him when he withdrew from the creation of the [Aurbis](Lore_Aurbis.md). Similarly to other Magna Ge, she is now synonymous with the [star](Lore_Stars.md) that she created.

Xero-Lyg is associated with the [element of Flesh](Lore_Elements.md#Flesh). She ventured into the [adjacent space](Lore_Adjacent_Place.md), where she fought side by side with [Lorkh](Lore_Lorkh.md), the Sower of Flesh, a [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md) interpretation of the Missing God [Lorkhan](Lore_Lorkhan.md). They battled within alternate worlds unto endless possibilities.

According to [Mankar Camoran](Lore_Mankar_Camoran.md), the Magna Ge as a whole were responsible for the creation of [Mehrunes Dagon](Lore_Mehrunes_Dagon.md) in "the bowels of [Lyg](Lore_Lyg.md)". According to Star-Queen Varalias, the "[King of Dreugh](Lore_Molag_Bal.md) fell to Mehrunes the Razor … was forced to … the next [kalpa](Lore_Kalpa.md) … to spiral ever-out and see the land and sky preferred to sea". Following that fall, "she was left to wander beside [the serpent](Lore_The_Serpent.md), so dark as to not be at all". She was said to be carried by the [unstars](Lore_Unstars.md) and cataloged events through time and untime, finding paths yet unseen to those among the stars. She "looked within [the wheel](Lore_The_Wheel.md) and the center was gone". What she saw was unknown, known only to her and other unknown entities, who had to carry this burden alone.

#### Xrib
[Xrib](Lore_Xrib.md) is an obscure entity worshipped by the [Falmer](Lore_Falmer.md).

## References