# Gods U

[Overview](Lore_Gods.md) | [A](Lore_Gods_A.md) [B](Lore_Gods_B.md) [C](Lore_Gods_C.md) [D](Lore_Gods_D.md) [E](Lore_Gods_E.md) [F](Lore_Gods_F.md) [G](Lore_Gods_G.md) [H](Lore_Gods_H.md) [I](Lore_Gods_I.md) [J](Lore_Gods_J.md) [K](Lore_Gods_K.md) [L](Lore_Gods_L.md) [M](Lore_Gods_M.md) [N](Lore_Gods_N.md) [O](Lore_Gods_O.md) [P](Lore_Gods_P.md) [Q](Lore_Gods_Q.md) [R](Lore_Gods_R.md) [S](Lore_Gods_S.md) [T](Lore_Gods_T.md) U [V](Lore_Gods_V.md) [W](Lore_Gods_W.md) [X](Lore_Gods_X.md) [Y](Lore_Gods_Y.md) [Z](Lore_Gods_Z.md)
---

#### Umaril the Unfeathered
[Umaril the Unfeathered](Lore_Umaril.md) (sometimes **Umar-Il**) remembered by his enemies as **Umaril the Accursed** and **Umaril Godsbane**, was an [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleids.md) sorcerer-king of the [Ayleid Empire](Lore_Ayleid_Empire.md) and liege-lord of the other Ayleid sorcerer-kings, a right he was bestowed thanks to his incredible power and status as the most favored champion of the [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Prince.md) [Meridia](Lore_Meridia.md). He ruled from the throne room of the [Temple of the Ancestors](Lore_White-Gold_Tower.md) in the province of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md); as the holder of the Cyrodilic throne, he was known as the **Cyrodiil**. His control over the White-Gold Tower also earned him the appellation **Dread Castellan**. Umaril was of such might that he was said to be able to slay the greatest of warriors with a single blow. He had an appearance akin to a golden [Angel](Lore_Angel.md), which was represented by his helm's visage and his signature unfeathered wings. He wielded a golden-hued sword artifact that was known as the Unfeathered Greatsword, or more simply as Umaril's Sword. He was ultimately defeated by the [Divine Crusader](Lore_Hero_of_Kvatch.md) before his plans could come to fruition.

#### Unala-Se, the Yellow Star
[Unala-Se](Lore_Unala-Se.md), **the Yellow Star** is one of the lesser-known [Magna Ge](Lore_Magna_Ge.md), one of the Star-Orphans and an [Anuic](Lore_Anu.md) ur-entity. She was one of [Magnus](Lore_Magnus.md)'s daughters and the sister of [Merid-Nunda](Lore_Merid-Nunda.md), [Mnemo-Li](Lore_Mnemo-Li.md), [Iana-Lor](Lore_Iana-Lor.md), [Xero-Lyg](Lore_Xero-Lyg.md), the eldest [Prime Archon](Lore_Ithelia.md), [Londa-Vera](Lore_Londa-Vera.md), [Sheza-Rana](Lore_Sheza-Rana.md), and [Valia-Sha](Lore_Valia-Sha.md). Alongside her sisters, she was part of the Nine Coruscations, who followed the parabolas that led away from Magnus and separated from him when he withdrew from the creation of the [Aurbis](Lore_Aurbis.md). Similarly to other Magna Ge she is now synonymous with the [star](Lore_Stars.md), which she created.

In the text authored by Star-Queen Varalias, she is associated with the [element of air](Lore_Elements.md#Air) and described as unyielding. Unala-Se taught the stars to be immovable, then "the [unstars](Lore_Unstars.md) came, and still she taught them to be undevourable". Unala-Se guided all the orphans in the ways of language, combat, and magic. They witnessed as a dark corruption spread across the land like a tainted sea, unaware that their actions would unleash the tragic [prince of Lyg](Lore_Mehrunes_Dagon.md) and the malevolent darkness within him into the realm. Even the steadfast [Elden King of Graht](Lore_Y%27ffre.md) succumbed to the darkness, transforming into something sinister. Following her downfall, a poisonous black tree emerged, symbolizing death and decay. She revealed to her followers what they were destined to witness. It is believed by some that she continues to observe, "hoping we will remember Love".

#### Una the Green Elk
[Una the Green Elk](Lore_Una_the_Green_Elk.md) is one of the lesser [spirits](Lore_Nature_Spirit.md) revered in [druid](Lore_Druid.md) culture.

Several items found in the [Systres Archipelago](Lore_Systres_Archipelago.md) were devoted to this lesser spirit. Such items include a collection of cooking pots made of clay that were adorned with the images of Una the Green Elk and small carved figurines depicting the Green Elk.