#  Foreign Adventures, Part 1

| Book Information | | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Seen In: | - [Elder Scrolls Online](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:The_Black_Fin:_Foreign_Adventures,_Part_1) ([Murkmire](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Murkmire_(DLC))) | | |
| Up | *[The Black Fin: Foreign Adventures](Lore_The_Black_Fin__Foreign_Adventures.md)* | | |
| Prev. | *[The Black Fin Goes to War, Part 2](Lore_Keshu__The_Black_Fin_Goes_to_War,_Part_2.md)* | Next | *[Part 2](Lore_The_Black_Fin__Foreign_Adventures,_Part_2.md)* |

[Keshu](Lore_Keshu.md)
The Black Fin: Foreign Adventures, Part 1 **by [Mee-See](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Mee-See), Squire and Personal Aide to Keshu the Black Fin** *The tale of Keshu the Black Fin's role in the formation of the Ebonheart Pact* *
---
I started out as a simple ka in service to the mighty [Keshu the Black Fin](Lore_Keshu_the_Black_Fin.md). In the [Saxhleel tongue](Lore_Jel.md), ka roughly translates as apprentice, but it doesn't necessarily carry the responsibilities and obligations that such a position among the [Nords](Lore_Nord.md) or [Dark Elves](Lore_Dunmer.md) does. Later, as Keshu began to adopt some of the customs of our allies, I was named as squire to the Black Fin. When [Peek-Ereel](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Peek-Ereel) decided to leave the legion, I also inherited the duty of recording significant events as they happened in the life of the mighty Keshu. Now, understand, this wasn't a specific duty related to my role as ka. This was an obligation passed on to me by Peek-Ereel herself without the express knowledge of Keshu, and it was an obligation I readily accepted.

So, where to begin? I think I'll start with the day the alliance began to take shape. The three nations (well, I find it difficult to actually refer to our people as a nation, but the reference makes the Nords and Dark Elves more comfortable, so there you have it) had met on the field of battle and come together to finally defeat the [Akaviri](Lore_Akavir.md) invaders. After the Akaviri finished sacking [Windhelm](Lore_Windhelm.md), it turned its attention to the south and east and began to march against [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). As the Akaviri invasion force cut a path toward [Mournhold](Lore_Mournhold.md), the Dark Elf army—led by [Almalexia](Lore_Almalexia.md) of the [Tribunal](Lore_Tribunal.md) —established a defensive line to halt their progress. [Jorunn](Lore_Jorunn.md) and the Nords, meanwhile, rallied their own forces and followed after the Akaviri, catching them from behind. The Akaviri, caught between two powerful armies, nevertheless was able to withstand the two-pronged attack. They may even have been able to eventually win the day, but that might just be speculation on my part. In any case, they never had the chance to try.

Keshu's force, a phalanx of Saxhleel shellbacks and swamp warriors, hit the Akaviri from the south, providing the last element needed to end this period of invasion. Our troops, seasoned from fighting the Dark Elf slavers in [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md), were the final ingredient required to overwhelm the invaders, and we fell upon them with wild abandon. Keshu wanted to help her friend Jorunn, but she also had an ulterior motive for marching our legion out of the swamp and into the heart of Morrowind. She wanted the other nations to recognize the value and veracity of the Saxhleel—the [Argonians](Lore_Argonian.md). We were more than primitive savages. We were more than slaves. We were the equals of the others, and we were here to save them from alien invaders.

I won't say that the victory was totally due to the intervention of Keshu's legion, but we certainly played our part. We fought valiantly alongside the ferocious Nords and the cunning Dark Elves, slaughtering Akaviri soldiers with every step of our advance. When the fighting finally ended near the city of [Ebonheart](Lore_Ebonheart.md) and victory was ours, Keshu hurried to meet with the leaders of the other two factions. I, as her loyal squire, followed in her wake.

I had never been in the presence of so many powerful and important people before! I had heard stories about Jorunn the Nord Bard, but I never imagined he was really that big! And Almalexia—who the Dark Elves worshipped as a god—was cold and beautiful, for a scaleless Elf without a tail. Jorunn stepped forward and greeted Keshu like an old friend. "We owe you a great debt, Black Fin," Jorunn said in his loud, booming voice. "What can the Nords and the Dark Elves offer you for your invaluable assistance this day?"

Keshu was silent for a few long moments, looking intently at Jorunn first, and then turning her attention to Almalexia. With her eyes locked upon the Mother of Morrowind, she finally replied, "No more Argonian slaves. Set my people free."

Almalexia and Jorunn exchanged a look of their own, and the large Nord's gaze never wavered. After a time, the Dark Elf leader made a slight nod of her head and said, "A reasonable request. And one the Dark Elves shall honor—with one provision. The Argonians must join the Dark Elves and the Nords in a mutual pact of cooperation and defense. In that way, all three of our nations will remain free."

Thus began a series of negotiations that lasted well into the next day and ended with the formation of the [Ebonheart Pact](Lore_Ebonheart_Pact.md). Keshu agreed to keep her forces in the north to help bolster the defense of her new allies, but not before she sent runners to [Stormhold](Lore_Stormhold.md) to inform our people of the news: [slavery](Lore_Slavery.md) was abolished and the Argonians were now allied with the Nords and the Dark Elves. Since we had no government, at least not in the sense that our new allies did, Keshu determined to remain in Nord and Dark Elf territory to solidify the Saxhleel position and make sure the various agreements were adhered to. In the meantime, she sent Xocin back to Black Marsh to find ambassadors to serve in the capital cities of the alliance.

And that was how the Argonians joined the Ebonheart Pact.