# Places Z

[Overview](Lore_Places.md) | [A](Lore_Places_A.md) [B](Lore_Places_B.md) [C](Lore_Places_C.md) [D](Lore_Places_D.md) [E](Lore_Places_E.md) [F](Lore_Places_F.md) [G](Lore_Places_G.md) [H](Lore_Places_H.md) [I](Lore_Places_I.md) [J](Lore_Places_J.md) [K](Lore_Places_K.md) [L](Lore_Places_L.md) [M](Lore_Places_M.md) [N](Lore_Places_N.md) [O](Lore_Places_O.md) [P](Lore_Places_P.md) [Q](Lore_Places_Q.md) [R](Lore_Places_R.md) [S](Lore_Places_S.md) [T](Lore_Places_T.md) [U](Lore_Places_U.md) [V](Lore_Places_V.md) [W](Lore_Places_W.md) [X](Lore_Places_X.md) [Y](Lore_Places_Y.md) Z | [Maps](Lore_Maps.md)
---

## Zafirbel Bay
[Zafirbel Bay](Lore_Zafirbel_Bay.md) is a small but significant part of the [Azura's Coast](Lore_Azura%27s_Coast.md) region. The region itself includes the islands and offshore area all along the eastern coast of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md). Zafirbel Bay is located roughly in the center of the coast. Like most of the region, the islands tend to be covered with [Muckspunge](Lore_Muckspunge.md), with [Saltrice](Lore_Saltrice.md) and [Marshmerrow](Lore_Marshmerrow.md) on the coasts. The waters teem with [Slaughterfish](Lore_Slaughterfish.md) and there is a thriving but disorganized pearl trade from the many kollop beds in the inter-island shallows. The ubiquitous [cliff racers](Lore_Cliff_Racer.md) have rookeries on most of the high points of the islands.

There are about 35 islands in the area of the Bay, some little more than exposed rocks, some far more substantial. Some of the larger islands have crypts or caves, many have camps of itinerant fisherman or occasional bandits, and a handful have [Telvanni](Lore_House_Telvanni.md) wizard towers. The only really substantial island is the one on which [Sadrith Mora](Lore_Sadrith_Mora.md) is built.

## Zainab Camp
The [Zainab Tribe](Lore_Zainab_Tribe.md) is one of the four distinct tribes of the [Ashlanders](Lore_Ashlander.md) of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md), in the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). The Zainab is the most populated tribe in all of Vvardenfell, and are surprisingly more open to Outlanders and House [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md), though they can be greedy and arrogant in their business. They are merchants by heart and collect a wide variety of goods to trade among each other and their neighbors. The Zainab is a mix of open to change and retaining Ashlander customs. They commonly live in the **Zainab Camp**, in the hills of the [Grazelands](Lore_Grazelands.md), on the outskirts of the [Telvanni](Lore_Telvanni.md) town of [Vos](Lore_Vos.md), and near the ruins of [Nchuleft](Lore_Nchuleft.md). Here they reap the wealth across the lands for trade and harvesting. The Zainab Tribe are known to collect the royal wax of a [Kwama Queen](Lore_Kwama_Queen.md), specifically when it sometimes hardens into a jewel-like pit. It is used in various crafts and religious ceremonies.

## Zareth M'Kai
[Zareth M'Kai](Lore_Zareth_M%27Kai.md) is a place in the province of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md) that is known for its [amethysts](Lore_Amethyst.md). It was named alongside [Dak'fron](Lore_Dak%27fron.md) and [Kulati](Lore_Kulati.md) as one of the most notable areas of amethyst mining in the province.

## Zergonipal
[Zergonipal](Lore_Zergonipal.md) is a [Daedric ruin](Lore_Daedric_Ruins.md) located along the northern coast of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md), deep in the [Ashlands](Lore_Ashlands.md) and just east of [Bthuand](Lore_Bthuand.md). The ruin's interior contains a shrine dedicated to [Malacath](Lore_Malacath.md), [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Princes.md) of Outcasts.

Circa [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), Zergonipal was located next to an active [lava flow](Lore_Foyada.md). The area was plagued by hostile [flame atronachs](Lore_Flame_Atronach.md), as well as less dangerous vermin such as [fiendroths](Lore_Fiendroth.md), [fetcherflies](Lore_Fetcherfly.md), and [skavengers](Lore_Skavenger.md). A crafting site located at Zergonipal was believed to imbue items crafted here with a certain artfulness, perhaps the result of local reality being transformed by the [divine](Lore_Gods.md) spark of creativity exercised by the master craftworkers who had come before.

As the threat from [Dagoth Ur](Lore_Dagoth_Ur.md) began to grow in the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), the [Ordinators](Lore_Ordinators.md) were no longer able to guard isolated Daedric ruins like Zergonipal. By [3E 427](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_427), the ruins had become occupied by a hostile group of [Orcish](Lore_Orc.md) worshippers and their [Daedric](Lore_Daedra.md) minions.