# Places I

[Overview](Lore_Places.md) | [A](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_A) [B](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_B) [C](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_C) [D](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_D) [E](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_E) [F](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_F) [G](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_G) [H](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_H) I [J](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_J) [K](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_K) [L](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_L) [M](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_M) [N](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_N) [O](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_O) [P](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_P) [Q](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_Q) [R](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_R) [S](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_S) [T](Lore_Places_T.md) [U](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_U) [V](Lore_Places_V.md) [W](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_W) [X](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_X) [Y](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_Y) [Z](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Places_Z) | [Maps](Lore_Maps.md)
---

## Ice Fields
The [Ice Fields](Lore_Ice_Fields.md) (also called the **Winterhold Glaciers**) are a region of glacial fields found along the coast of [Winterhold](Lore_Winterhold_(region).md), in the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). The glaciers are found on the mainland around [Alftand](Lore_Alftand.md), [Saarthal](Lore_Saarthal.md), and Frostflow Lighthouse surrounded mostly by the [Winterhold Mountains](Lore_Winterhold_Mountains.md), with other glaciers found around [the capital](Lore_Winterhold_(city).md) going east. The ice fields continue in the [Sea of Ghosts](Lore_Sea_of_Ghosts.md) through a series of arctic permafrost-covered glacial islands and icebergs along the [Northern Coast](Lore_Northern_Coast.md), some meeting the [Broken Cape](Lore_Broken_Cape.md). Glaciers on the mainland allow access to the sea through steep glacial canyons. Many adventurers perish in the glacial fields that surround the city.

## Icereach
[Icereach](Lore_Icereach.md) is a small isolated island located in the [Sea of Ghosts](Lore_Sea_of_Ghosts.md). It is considered a part of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) and it is a contested territory between [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md) Witches of [Icereach Coven](Lore_Icereach_Coven.md) and [Nords](Lore_Nord.md). The fort on the island was built by Nords in order to protect whalers from Orc pirates but was eventually acquired by the Reachfolk and served as base of operation of the Icereach Coven until [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582) when it was defeated by combined forces of [Lyris Titanborn](Lore_Lyris_Titanborn.md), the [Undaunted](Lore_Undaunted.md) guild and [the Vestige](Lore_The_Vestige.md).

## Ichidag
[Ichidag](Lore_Ichidag.md) is a countryside located somewhere in mainland [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md). Based on context clues, the city-state of [Gilane](Lore_Gilane.md) is seemingly not located inside the region.

It is known for the [Battle of Ichidag](Lore_War_of_the_Red_Diamond.md#The_Conflict) in [3E 127](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_127) during the [War of the Red Diamond](Lore_War_of_the_Red_Diamond.md).

## Iggnir River
The [Iggnir River](Lore_Iggnir_River.md) is a body of water located in southern [Solstheim](Lore_Solstheim.md). It runs south until its mouth empties into the [Sea of Ghosts](Lore_Sea_of_Ghosts.md), just east of [Fort Frostmoth](Lore_Fort_Frostmoth.md).

Before the [Red Year](Lore_Red_Year.md) of [4E 5](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_5), the Iggnir was a large river which ran through the [Hirstaang Forest](Lore_Hirstaang_Forest.md) and the [Isinfier Plains](Lore_Isinfier_Plains.md). It ran south all the way from its source, the frozen [Lake Fjalding](Lore_Lake_Fjalding.md). It was filled with [horkers](Lore_Horker.md), who made their way from the coast and up the three rivers of Solstheim to their breeding grounds at Lake Fjalding. The [Telvanni](Lore_Telvanni.md) settlement of [Tel Mithryn](Lore_Tel_Mithryn.md) was founded west of the mouth of the river some time before 4E 5.

Following the eruption of [Red Mountain](Lore_Red_Mountain.md), southern Solstheim slowly began to be engulfed by ash. Several decades of this resulted in the destruction of the Hirstaang Forest, and southern Solstheim was transformed into ash wastes. The Iggnir River was reduced to little more than a shallow stream. It no longer flows from Lake Fjalding, instead beginning in the northern ashlands. The native fauna fled north, and the Iggnir instead became home to several endangered [Silt Striders](Lore_Silt_Strider.md) who had been brought over from mainland [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md) by [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) refugees, although they did not flourish on the island. The [Emperor Parasols](Lore_Emperor_Parasol.md) from Tel Mithryn also spread to the banks of the river. By [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201), the southern coast of Solstheim had been poisoned by the continuing ashfall, killing fish.

## Ilayas Ruins
[Ilayas Ruins](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Ilayas_Ruins) is a ruined citadel built on a seaside hill of [Malabal Tor](Lore_Malabal_Tor.md), in the province of [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md). The keep is occupied by an ancient order of lightning wizards called the Stormwardens, who defend the coast from foreign invasion and operate an ancient [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) artifact called the Sphere of Storms, a potent orb that utilizes [weather magic](Lore_Weather_Magic.md) to manipulate the waves of the coast and supply water for crops. The entire ruin was built around the focus of the Sphere of Storms, and the Stormwardens will go through great lengths to protect it.

## Ilessan Hills
The [Ilessan Hills](Lore_Ilessan_Hills.md) is a political entity found in the province of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md), in the region of the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md). It is a landlocked region known for its ancient pine forests. It mostly consists of a vast mountain range that spills into neighboring countries and the wetlands in the northeast section of the barony. The region is the home of the local [Glenmoril Wyrd](Lore_Glenmoril_Wyrd.md), an ancient coven of [witches](Lore_Wyrd.md) that worship the [natural world](Lore_The_Green.md) and the less-feral aspects of [Hircine](Lore_Hircine.md).

## Iliac Bay
The [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md) (also spelled **Illiac Bay**, sometimes called **Starfall Bay**) is the large bay separating the southern coast of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md) from the northern coast of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md). Southwestern High Rock and northern Hammerfell are often referred to collectively as the **Iliac Bay region**. The [Imperial Navy](Lore_Imperial_Navy.md)'s Northwest Fleet is charged with its protection.

For more information, see the main [lore](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md) article.

## Lake Ilinalta
[Lake Ilinalta](Lore_Lake_Ilinalta.md) is a lake in west-central [Falkreath Hold](Lore_Falkreath_Hold.md), in the middle of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md)'s pine forest. It is the source of the [White River](Lore_White_River.md), and a notable Skyrim landmark. The town of [Helgen](Lore_Helgen.md) was less than a day's ride to the southeast, and the Hold's capital of [Falkreath](Lore_Falkreath.md) is directly south. The [Imperial Legion](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md) used to have a fort along its shore, until the entire structure mysteriously sank into the water in a single day. The ruins became known as [Ilinalta's Deep](Lore_Ilinalta%27s_Deep.md). According to local legend, the place is cursed and travelers are known to go missing.

## Ilinalta's Deep
[Ilinalta's Deep](Lore_Ilinalta%27s_Deep.md) (formerly known as **Fort Ilinalta**) is a ruined fort on the shores of [Lake Ilinalta](Lore_Lake_Ilinalta.md) in [Falkreath Hold](Lore_Falkreath_Hold.md), in the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). It was built sometime in the [Fourth Era](Lore_Fourth_Era.md) by a disenfranchised teacher from the [College of Winterhold](Lore_College_of_Winterhold.md), Malyn Varen, and his followers. It eventually sank into Lake Ilinalta and flooded from within. Ever since then, local fisherfolk have believed that the whole lake is cursed.

## Ilunibi
[Ilunibi](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Ilunibi) (also called the **Ilunibi Caverns**) was an old sea cavern south across from [Khartag Point](Lore_Khartag_Point.md) in [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md), within the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). To the locals in [Gnaar Mok](Lore_Gnaar_Mok.md), it was a hideout for smugglers and outlaws, often infested with [rats](Lore_Rat.md) and [slaughterfish](Lore_Slaughterfish.md). But by the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), it was a small, quiet retreat for members of [House Dagoth](Lore_House_Dagoth.md) to meditate in [Dagoth Ur](Lore_Dagoth_Ur.md)'s ways. It was one of their several lesser shrines across the island, typically known as **Ilunibi Shrine**.

## Imperial City
The [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md) (also known as **Cyrodiil**, **Cyrodiil City**, the **Imperial Capital**, the **Capital**, and the **City of a Thousand Cults**) is the capital city of [Cyrodiil Province](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) and the [Tamrielic Empire](Lore_Empire.md), the city belongs to a political territory known as the **Imperium** or **County Imperium**. Culturally Nibenese, the Imperial City is described as the heart of Tamriel.

A thriving city, its flooded lower dwellings are sailed by gondolas and riverboats. [Moth Priests](Lore_Cult_of_the_Ancestor_Moth.md) walk the streets in clouds of ancestor moths. House guards bearing exceptionally long daikatanas keep watch over the streets. The city proper is located on [City Isle](Lore_City_Isle.md), which lies in the center of [Lake Rumare](Lore_Lake_Rumare.md), but continues across the lake and merges into ruins left by the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md) and the villages of the southern [Niben River](Lore_Niben_River.md). The city stains the mouth of the Niben red with the tinmi soil of Rumare's shores.

## Imperial City Prison
The [Imperial City Prison](Lore_Imperial_City_Prison.md) (also called the **Imperial Prison** or the **Imperial Dungeons**) is located in the **Prison District** of the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md), connected by bridge to the [Market District](Lore_Market_District_(Imperial_City).md). It is infamous for its impregnability, although several secret escape tunnels connect up to the ancient subterrane and the prison sewers beneath. It is the headquarters of the [Imperial Legion](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md).

## Imperial Province of Akavir
The [Imperial Province of Akavir](Lore_Imperial_Province_of_Akavir.md) was a short-lived province created in [3E 288](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_288) during [Emperor Uriel Septim V](Lore_Uriel_Septim_V.md)'s invasion of [Tsaesci](Lore_Tsaesci_(place).md), [Akavir](Lore_Akavir.md). [Septimia](Lore_Septimia.md), a [Tsaesci](Lore_Tsaesci_(race).md) port town, was the first colony of the province. The settlement of [Ionith](Lore_Ionith.md) was the invasion's headquarters.

The province encompassed the lower stage of a large river, along which both of the settlements were located. The surrounding land consisted of rich, well-watered fields. The four [legions](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md) present during the invasion constructed a road between Septimia and Ionith.

The province was abandoned in [3E 289](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_289) due to extreme weather conditions and Tsaesci attacks. Uriel V died in battle during the retreat. The area was retaken by the natives and has never been revisited by Imperial forces since.

## Imperial Reserve
The [Imperial Reserve](Lore_Imperial_Reserve.md) is a grassland area extending across the southern section of the [Colovian Highlands](Lore_Colovian_Highlands.md). It lies west of the [Great Forest](Lore_Great_Forest.md) and extends west towards the [Gold Coast](Lore_Gold_Coast.md). The Imperial Reserve is sparsely populated, containing only a few small hamlets such as [Hackdirt](Lore_Hackdirt.md) and [Weatherleah](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Weatherleah). Aside from that, the Reserve is dotted with many small bandit camps, and is known as a refuge for outlaws and [Daedra](Lore_Daedric_Princes.md) worshippers. The Reserve is prime hunting ground due to its flat land and sparse trees. It is home to abundant game, including [deer](Lore_Deer.md), [antelopes](Lore_Antelope.md), [pheasants](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Pheasant), and [boars](Lore_Boar.md).

The Reserve was established during the reign of Emperor [Brazollus Dor](Lore_Brazollus_Dor.md) in the late [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md). The Emperor spent more time hunting in the Colovian Highlands than ruling the [Empire](Lore_Alessian_Empire.md); indeed, his only official act was to declare a vast swath of the plains his own personal game reserve. This lasted for about a century, but the [Akaviri Potentate](Lore_Akaviri_Potentate.md) subsequently neglected to enforce this claim, and local [Colovians](Lore_Colovian.md) began to once again hunt the Emperor's deer.

## Indoranyon
[Indoranyon](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Indoranyon) ([Dark Elvish](Lore_Dark_Elvish.md) for *"Blessed Greenland"*) is a stronghold located on the coast of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md), in the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). The fort is one of the most notable landmarks on that stretch of the coast. Indoranyon is mentioned in the historical-fiction book, *[Poison Song](Lore_Poison_Song.md)*, written by Bristin Xel. The ruin's [propylon chamber](Lore_Magical_Transportation.md) links to Falensarano and [Rotheran](Lore_Rotheran.md).

## Infernium Forge
The [Infernium Forge](Lore_Infernium_Forge.md) is a [Dwemer ruin](Lore_Dwemer_Ruins.md) known for producing pitch-black [animunculi](Lore_Dwemer_Animunculi.md) that radiate fire, giving them a burning hot appearance. The [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md) scholar Guylaine Marilie noted the [vamidiums](Lore_Vamidium.md) and [spiderlings](Lore_Dwarven_Spider.md) from the site are unusual and distinctive, indicating that they all came from the hand of a single [Dwemer artisan](Lore_Smithing.md). Constructs originating from the Infernium Forge had found their way into the hands of collectors across [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) by [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582).

## Infinite Archive
The [Infinite Archive](Lore_Infinite_Archive.md) is a border realm of [Apocrypha](Lore_Apocrypha.md), an adjunct plane or subrealm which lies within the greater fabric of Apocrypha, created by the [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Princes.md) [Hermaeus Mora](Lore_Hermaeus_Mora.md). It is an endless library consisting primarily of historical accounts, written records of events that were or could yet be. Contemplating the scope of the Archive's function was known to leave mortals, even its caretaker Master Malkhest, in a daze.

## Infinite Panopticon
The [Infinite Panopticon](Lore_Infinite_Panopticon.md) is a pocket realm inside [Hermaeus Mora](Lore_Hermaeus_Mora.md)'s realm of [Apocrypha](Lore_Apocrypha.md). It is described as an endless library of rooms and passages inside a limitless pocket [dimension](Lore_Planes_of_Existence.md) situated outside the time and space of Apocrypha itself, and is said to be one of the most secure repositories of knowledge within Apocrypha. The Panopticon is said to hold infinite secrets, including some of Mora's most closely guarded ones, as the information and secrets inside are considered too precious to be known by anyone but Hermaeus Mora himself.

In order to protect the information stored within, the entrance to the Panopticon constantly changes, never appearing in the same place twice. The interior of the realm also changes at random; nothing within the extradimensional space conforms to reality as [mortals](Lore_Souls.md) understand it. The defenses that protect the secrets in the Panopticon are said to include shifting chambers and corridors as well as an army of [Hushed](Lore_Hushed.md), [Lurkers](Lore_Lurker.md), [Seekers](Lore_Seeker.md) and other [Daedric](Lore_Daedra.md) guardians, which are said to "defy description", being too powerful and obscure to describe accurately.

## Inner Sea
The [Inner Sea](Lore_Inner_Sea.md) (also called the **Inland Sea**, the **Narrow Sea**, and the **Vvardenfell Rift**) is a body of water that separates the mainland of the Imperial province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md) from the large island of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md). It stretches from the [Bitter Coast](Lore_Bitter_Coast.md) and [Ascadian Isles](Lore_Ascadian_Isles.md) regions in western Vvardenfell all the way to [Azura's Coast](Lore_Azura%27s_Coast.md) in the east. It meets the [Sea of Ghosts](Lore_Sea_of_Ghosts.md) twice: the two meld together near Azura's Coast, and again near the large and icy island of [Solstheim](Lore_Solstheim.md) northwest of Vvardenfell. There are coral reefs submerged in the waters of the Inner Sea.

There are conflicting reports on the origins of the Inner Sea. Some sources accredit an eruption of Red Mountain to its creation, whereas Vivec's Sermons point to the usage of the [Numidium](Lore_Numidium.md) circa [1E 700](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_700). However, some sources attest that the Inner Sea was present before both the first major eruption of Red Mountain and the activation of the Numidium. Furthermore, [Topal the Pilot](Lore_Topal_the_Pilot.md) left behind maps of the Inner Sea dating to the [Middle Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md#Middle_Merethic_Era), far before the first Dwemer colonies.

The main port of the Inner Sea on Vvardenfell is [Ebonheart](Lore_Castle_Ebonheart.md), with minor ports being [Hla Oad](Lore_Hla_Oad.md), [Gnaar Mok](Lore_Gnaar_Mok.md), [Molag Mar](Lore_Molag_Mar.md), [Tel Branora](Lore_Tel_Branora.md) and the Imperial outpost of [Seyda Neen](Lore_Seyda_Neen.md) with its lighthouse Grand Pharos guiding mariners. The [Imperial Legion](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md) once held a strategic outpost called [Fort Firemoth](Lore_Fort_Firemoth.md) on an offshore island of the same name, but it was overrun by an undead army and never reclaimed. The Inner Sea is home to a species of bioluminescent and sentient [Land Coral](Lore_Land_Coral.md) that grows exclusively on the land around it. The fields of [Vivec's Antlers](Lore_Vivec%27s_Antlers.md) is the most notable example of a site containing this species of Land Coral. Vivec's Antlers was also a battlefield in the [Second Akaviri Invasion](Lore_Second_Akaviri_Invasion.md) of [2E 572](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_572), for the final battle involving the [Snow Demons](Lore_Kamal_(race).md) of [Kamal](Lore_Kamal_(place).md) and their invasion of the province of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md).

The coast of Vvardenfell is rugged and treacherous, with shipwrecks scattered among the menhirs that protrude from the water. It has been a major center of smuggling operations by the [Camonna Tong](Lore_Camonna_Tong.md) and other groups.

## Ione
[Ione](Lore_Ione.md) is a small village in the province of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), a short distance southeast of the village of [Pell's Gate](Lore_Pell%27s_Gate.md).

It was established at the end of the [Oblivion Crisis](Lore_Oblivion_Crisis.md), and is named after Imperial Legion Captain Tertius Ione. In the center of town are the large, ivy covered ruins of an Oblivion Gate. This gate opened in the middle of Captain Ione's Legion encampment. He and his men went into the gate, but were never heard from again until a [Bosmer](Lore_Bosmer.md) soldier closed the gate and appeared in the forest weeks later. He had been driven insane, and died days after he was recovered.

During Captain Ione's absence, a few of the legionaries who stayed behind in the camp built what were originally intended to be temporary buildings. Instead, a town grew up around them. It is filled with structures made of rotting wood, but is still a favorite town of [Crown Prince Attrebus](Lore_Attrebus_Mede.md), who inherited a hunting lodge there.

## Ionith
[Ionith](Lore_Ionith.md) was a large [Akaviri](Lore_Akavir.md) settlement used as a headquarters by [Emperor Uriel Septim V's](Lore_Uriel_Septim_V.md) invasion of Akavir in the year [3E 288](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_288). It was originally a [Tsaesci](Lore_Tsaesci_(race).md) town farther upriver from [Septimia](Lore_Septimia.md), but was found abandoned and was taken over by the invasion force to be re-founded as a colony of the short-lived [Imperial Province of Akavir](Lore_Imperial_Province_of_Akavir.md). A road linked the settlement to Septimia.

Due to the terrible, almost unnatural weather suffered leading up to the [Battle of Ionith](Lore_Battle_of_Ionith.md), communications between the two cities was lost as the river dried up and the garrisons along the road were lost to raiders. The Emperor was besieged, and led a valiant march towards Septimia in order to retreat. This was the last direct contact from the Expeditionary Force, but survivors of the Battle say that the Tsaesci surrounded them and Uriel V was killed, *"cut down by enemy arrows as he rallied the [Tenth [Legion]](Lore_Tenth_Legion.md)'s shield wall"*. The settlement was reclaimed by the Tsaesci and has never been revisited by Imperial forces since.

## Irkngthand
[Irkngthand](Lore_Irkngthand.md) is a [Dwemer ruin](Lore_Dwemer_Ruins.md) tunneling beneath [Lake Yorgrim](Lore_Lake_Yorgrim.md) in [The Pale](Lore_The_Pale.md) hold of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). Irkngthand is home to the only known depiction of the [Snow Elves](Lore_Snow_Elf.md) before the [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md) corrupted them into the modern [Falmer](Lore_Falmer.md). [The Great Statue of Irkngthand](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Statues_Other_Statues#Great_Statue_of_Irkngthand) was built in secret by the Falmeri slaves and adorned by the two Eyes of the Falmer, which are giant gems of enormous value said burn into oneself upon viewing their magnificence.

## Irranhu
[Irranhu](Lore_Irranhu.md) is a small island in the [Yokudan](Lore_Yokuda.md) archipelago, between the [Azurian Sea](Lore_Azurian_Sea.md) and the [Sea of Pearls](Lore_Sea_of_Pearls.md). It is just north of [Samara](Lore_Samara.md), off the southeast coast of [Akos Kasaz](Lore_Akos_Kasaz.md).

## Isild River
The [Isild River](Lore_Isild_River.md) is a river in northern [Solstheim](Lore_Solstheim.md) on the [Felsaad Coast](Lore_Felsaad_Coast.md).

Before the [Red Year](Lore_Red_Year.md) of [4E 5](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_5), the Isild River ran northwest from the frozen [Lake Fjalding](Lore_Lake_Fjalding.md) until it merged with the [Harstrad River](Lore_Harstrad_River.md) at the foot of the [Moesring Mountains](Lore_Moesring_Mountains.md). The river then continued to its mouth on the icy Felsaad Coast, west of [Skaal Village](Lore_Skaal_Village.md). It was reportedly a beautiful part of the island, at the right time of year.

The cataclysms of the Red Year substantially changed the landscape of Solstheim. Many of the landmarks remained the same; the river is still west of Skaal Village and flows from Lake Fjalding to the coast. However, the Isild and Harstrad rivers no longer meet. Instead, each empties separately into a small bay on the northern coast.

## Isinfier Plains
The [Isinfier Plains](Lore_Isinfier_Plains.md) are the central tundra on the island of [Solstheim](Lore_Solstheim.md) that stretches from Thormoor's Watch in the west to the eastern coast, between [Thirsk](Lore_Thirsk.md) and the [Hirstaang Forest](Lore_Hirstaang_Forest.md). The [Moesring Mountains](Lore_Moesring_Mountains.md), [Lake Fjalding](Lore_Lake_Fjalding.md) and the [Isild River](Lore_Isild_River.md) form the northern border and Bloodskal Barrow, Brodir Grove and the Sun Stone form the southern border. Most of the Isinfier Plains are covered in snow and frequently endure savage blizzards especially to the north, near the Moesring Mountains.

Flora in the region is diverse and includes Belladonna, Holly, Solstheim Pine trees and several species of shrub just to name a few. However, it is the fauna in the region that is what makes the Isinfier Plains an excellent hunting ground. Various species include the common grizzly bear, snow bear, common wolf, snow wolf, tusked bristleback, grahl, white horker, draugr, ravens and Rieklings.

The unique river systems and sheltered bays of the Isinfier Plains makes the region an excellent place for various smuggling operations and camps for reavers, berserkers, Fryse Hags and hunting parties of the [Skaal](Lore_Skaal.md) and Thirsk. Many people call the dozens of ice caves in the Isinfier Plains home. The area also includes magnificent tombs like the Jolgeirr Barrow. The Altar of Thrond is located in the north of the Isinfier Plains, on the banks of the [Harstrad River](Lore_Harstrad_River.md).

After the [Red Mountain](Lore_Red_Mountain.md) erupted in [4E 5](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_5), Isinfier Plains became the border between the southern [ashlands](Lore_Solstheim_Ashlands.md) and the northern, intact part of the island. In [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201), the reconstruction of the [Temple of Miraak](Lore_Temple_of_Miraak.md) began in the region, but was left incomplete after the defeat of [Miraak](Lore_Miraak.md) by the [Last Dragonborn](Lore_Last_Dragonborn.md).

## Isle of Contemplation
The [Isle of Contemplation](Lore_Isle_of_Contemplation.md) is a small island in the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md), located off the northern coast of [Vafe](Lore_Vafe.md). It is a recursive island, being found within a lake completely within [Auridon](Lore_Auridon.md), whose waters flow from the [Diceto River](Lore_Diceto_River.md) to the [Auridon Strait](Lore_Auridon_Strait.md). It is described as magical and serene, and one of the most beautiful places on [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). This island was the namesake of a kind of [Indriks](Lore_Indrik.md).

One of the last members of the [Veiled Heritance](Lore_Veiled_Heritance.md) on Summerset sought refuge on the isle circa [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582).

## Isle of Craghold
The [Isle of Craghold](Lore_Isle_of_Craghold.md) is an island within the province of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md). It was inhabited during the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md).

At some point during the [War of Betony](Lore_War_of_Betony.md) between years [3E 402](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_402) and [3E 403](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_403), Craghold was besieged by the forces of [Sentinel](Lore_Sentinel_(kingdom).md) for several days. The siege was broken by the forces of [Daggerfall](Lore_Daggerfall_(kingdom).md) forces under Lord [Bridwell](Lore_Bridwell.md), who liberated the island. Siege of Craghold and Battle of the Bluffs were both victories of the [Bretons](Lore_Breton.md).

## Isle of Gold
The [Isle of Gold](Lore_Isle_of_Gold.md) is a group of small islands located in the center of [Lake Honrich](Lore_Lake_Honrich.md) in [the Rift](Lore_The_Rift.md) region of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). The islands are interlinked with bridges and are similarly connected to the mainland via a bridge from the south shore of the lake.

## Isle of N'Gasta
The [Isle of N'Gasta](Lore_Isle_of_N%27Gasta.md) is a small island in the [Abecean Sea](Lore_Abecean_Sea.md) west of [Stros M'Kai](Lore_Stros_M%27Kai.md), named after its infamous resident, the [Sload](Lore_Sload.md) necromancer [N'Gasta](Lore_N%27Gasta.md). The isle suffers from frequent storms and is always a gloomy place, inhabited by [bats](Lore_Bat.md) and mysterious creatures with tentacles.

A chain of islands called [the Spine](Lore_The_Spine.md) extends from Stros M'Kai's northern shore, and at its end a mysterious [skeletal](Lore_Skeleton.md) [boatman](Lore_Boatman.md) once ferried travelers to and from the Necromancer's Isle. A large graveyard covers most of the isle, and it was likely once used by the first [Redguard](Lore_Redguard.md) settlers to bury criminals. This was a tradition brought over from [Yokuda](Lore_Yokuda.md), to prevent the criminal's evil spirit from tormenting the living. The Necropolis, the largest structure in the graveyard, spans the width of the island, barring those who seek the old wizard's tower. This tower, sometimes called N'Gasta's Tower, is situated on an islet at the isle's southern tip.

During the reign of [Thassad II](Lore_Thassad_II.md), N'Gasta came to the isle and made it his, having been granted the shores as "hunting grounds" by [Mannimarco](Lore_Mannimarco.md). After the [Battle of Hunding Bay](Lore_Battle_of_Hunding_Bay.md) in [2E 864](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_864), he began raising [skeletons](Lore_Skeleton.md) and [zombies](Lore_Zombie.md), including those who died in the battle. Later that year, [Cyrus](Lore_Cyrus.md) came to the isle and accepted a delivery job from N'Gasta. He came back after he learned that his sister, [Iszara](Lore_Iszara.md), was last seen on her way to N'Gasta to ask for assistance. He discovered N'Gasta's treachery and after killing the necromancer, entered the [realm of Clavicus Vile](Lore_Fields_of_Regret.md) to bargain for her soul. With Iszara saved, they headed back to Stros M'Kai together.

## Isle of Red Mist
The **Isle of Red Mist**, also known as the **Isle of the Red Mist**, was among the places visited by the infamous Captain [Wereshark](Lore_Wereshark.md) in the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). The isle was inhabited by criminals and cannibals, who practiced graphic rituals and worshipped ancient matrons of the [sea](Lore_Sea_of_Ghosts.md). By the time Captain Wereshark and his crew had rescued several painted cannibals from the island, it was ruled by the Queen of Bones, Crackteeth.<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-1)</sup>

## Ivarstead
[Ivarstead](Lore_Ivarstead.md) (also known as **Hillgrund's Steading**) is a small milling town, situated at the eastern base of the [Throat of the World](Lore_Throat_of_the_World.md), on the western edge of [the Rift](Lore_The_Rift.md), built on the western shore of [Lake Geir](Lore_Lake_Geir.md). Pilgrims and travelers often pass through, as the town is located at the beginning of the 7,000 Steps to [High Hrothgar](Lore_High_Hrothgar.md). Northeast of Ivarstead lies the Nordic ruin known as Shroud Hearth Barrow.

## Ixtaxh Xanmeer
[Ixtaxh Xanmeer](Lore_Ixtaxh_Xanmeer.md) (formally known as **Ixtaxh-Thitithil-Meht**, which translates into *"Exact Egg-Cracker"* in [Jel](Lore_Jel.md)) is a sunken [xanmeer](Lore_Xanmeer.md) ruin located on the coast of [Murkmire](Lore_Murkmire.md), in the province of [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md). It is a great stepped pyramid, said to be one of the most extensive stone-built sites in the region. It is rumored that the ruins contains a plethora of jewelry and treasure, among these items of interest was the Kajin-Jat Crystal, a [vakka stone](Lore_Vakka_Stone.md) that was used in rituals by the Ancient [Argonians](Lore_Argonian.md).

## References
1. [^](#cite_ref-1) [*The Saga of Captain Wereshark*](Lore_The_Saga_of_Captain_Wereshark.md)