# People K

[Overview](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:People) | [A](Lore_People_A.md) [B](Lore_People_B.md) [C](Lore_People_C.md) [D](Lore_People_D.md) [E](Lore_People_E.md) [F](Lore_People_F.md) [G](Lore_People_G.md) [H](Lore_People_H.md) [I](Lore_People_I.md) [J](Lore_People_J.md) K [L](Lore_People_L.md) [M](Lore_People_M.md) [N](Lore_People_N.md) [O](Lore_People_O.md) [P](Lore_People_P.md) [Q](Lore_People_Q.md) [R](Lore_People_R.md) [S](Lore_People_S.md) [T](Lore_People_T.md) [U](Lore_People_U.md) [V](Lore_People_V.md) [W](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:People_W) [X](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:People_X) [Y](Lore_People_Y.md) [Z](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:People_Z)
---

#### Lord K'avar (fl. 3E 5th century)
[Lord K'avar](Lore_K%27avar.md) was a noble from the Kingdom of [Sentinel](Lore_Sentinel_(kingdom).md) in the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md). He was a veteran of the [War of Betony](Lore_War_of_Betony.md). During a battle in the [Glenpoint](Lore_Glenpoint.md) Foothills, he received a disfiguring injury from a fireball cast by a [Dark Elf](Lore_Dark_Elf.md) mercenary nightblade. After the war, K'avar commanded the [Order of the Candle](Lore_Order_of_the_Candle.md) along with Lord Vhosek. Their knightly order was charged with the protection of Sentinel, replacing the defunct [Knights of the Moon](Lore_Knights_of_the_Moon.md).

In the years prior to the [Warp in the West](Lore_Warp_in_the_West.md), Lord K'avar allied himself with the [Order of the Black Worm](Lore_Order_of_the_Black_Worm.md), plotting to overthrow Queen [Akorithi](Lore_Akorithi.md) and usurp the throne of Sentinel. K'avar went into hiding once the [Fighters Guild](Lore_Fighters_Guild.md) got involved, although he was later arrested and imprisoned in the dungeons of Castle Sentinel. He then escaped and fled to Castle [Wayrest](Lore_Wayrest.md). Akorithi ordered his execution, but it is unknown if this was carried out.

#### High Craftlord Kagrenac (?b - [1E 700](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_700))
Lord [Kagrenac](Lore_Kagrenac.md) (sometimes **Kagrnak**), known as the **Shop Foremer**, was the [Dwemeri](Lore_Dwemer.md) Chief Tonal Architect during the time of the [First Council](Lore_First_Council.md). The foremost arcane philosopher and [mage-smith](Lore_Smithing.md) of the Dwemer, he was a "pioneer" in the field of mythopoeic forces, and devised [tools](Lore_Kagrenac%27s_Tools.md) with which to harness them with the intent of transcending the limits of Dwemer mortality. Kagrenac was the primary architect working on the [Heart of Lorkhan](Lore_Heart_of_Lorkhan.md) and was responsible for creating the original Brass God, [Anumidium](Lore_Numidium.md). According to some theories, it may have been his use of his tools on the Heart that caused the Dwemer to disappear from the face of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) in [1E 700](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_700).

#### Kailstig the Axe (fl. 2E 582)
[Kailstig the Axe](Lore_Kailstig_the_Axe.md) was a [Nord](Lore_Nord.md) fighter, and a founding member of the [Undaunted](Lore_Undaunted.md), along with [Turuk Redclaws](Lore_Turuk_Redclaws.md) and [Mighty Mordra](Lore_Mordra.md). The Undaunted were a group of brave and boisterous adventurers who were active during the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md).

#### Lord Kain (fl. 3E 5th century)
[Lord Kain](Lore_Kain.md) (sometimes spelled **Khane**) was a noble knight from the [Barony of Lainlyn](Lore_Lainlyn_(barony).md), in the province of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md). Lord Kain was the younger brother of Baron [Shrike](Lore_Shrike.md), who ruled over his domain with an iron fist. Kain was one of his most outspoken critics, and together with Lord [Harth](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Harth), they formed the [Knights of the True Horn](Lore_Knights_of_the_True_Horn.md).

#### Saint Kaladas (fl. [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md))
[Saint Kaladas the Architect](Lore_Kaladas.md) was a [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md) master craftsman and [Imperial saint](Lore_Imperial_Saints.md) who lived in [Leyawiin](Lore_Leyawiin.md) several centuries after the [Alessian Slave Rebellion](Lore_Alessian_Slave_Rebellion.md). He constructed the Great Chapel of [Zenithar](Lore_Zenithar.md) in Leyawiin in tribute to the legend of a messenger who is said to have carried the [Mace of the Crusader](Lore_Mace_of_the_Crusader.md) to Leyawiin following the death of [Pelinal Whitestrake](Lore_Pelinal_Whitestrake.md) at the hands of the [Ayleids](Lore_Ayleid.md).

#### Ansei Kalam (fl. early 1E)
A renowned [Yokudan](Lore_Yokuda.md) warrior and master of polearms. Kalam and his daughter, Ra Adia, drove out the bandit tribes of the [Dragontail Mountains](Lore_Dragontail_Mountains.md) that had been harassing the [Redguard](Lore_Redguard.md) settlers for two decades. They were honored and both laid to rest in the Valley of the Blades after their death.<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-Sai-1)</sup>

#### Kalien (fl. 1E 2805)
[Kalien](Lore_Kalien.md) was a failed [Tsaesci](Lore_Tsaesci_(race).md) [Dragonguard](Lore_Dragonguard.md) recruit who led the Sack of [Winterhold](Lore_Winterhold.md), an event that took place in [1E 2805](Lore_First_Era.md) during the [Winterhold Rebellion](Lore_Winterhold_Rebellion.md). Kalien was denied entry to the Dragonguard, thus leading him to command the sack. His actions reflected poorly on the Dragonguard despite his rejection from the order, tarnishing years of built up trust between the [Akaviri](Lore_Akaviri.md) and the [Nords](Lore_Nord.md).<sup>[[2]](#cite_note-2)</sup>

#### Count Kantus Jeril (fl. 1E 28th century)
[Kantus Jeril](Lore_Kantus_Jeril.md) was a [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md) [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md). For his heroism at [Pale Pass](Lore_Pale_Pass.md), he was appointed the first Count of [Chorrol](Lore_Chorrol.md), a settlement located in the rugged [Colovian Highlands](Lore_Colovian_Highlands.md). It is unknown if he is a direct ancestor of the Valga family, who ruled Chorrol at the end of the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md).

#### Regent Karinwe Corelanya (fl. [2E 439](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_439) - [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582))
**Regent** [Karinwe Corelanya](Lore_Karinwe_Corelanya.md) was an [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md) noblewoman who served as the leader of [Sunport](Lore_Sunport.md), as well as the head of [Clan Corelanya](Lore_Clan_Corelanya.md) during the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md)'s [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md). In addition to her political role, she was also a historian and author.

#### Karliah (fl. 4E 201)
[Karliah](Lore_Karliah.md) is a [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) thief and a member of the [Nightingales](Lore_Nightingale_Trinity.md), in service to [Nocturnal](Lore_Nocturnal.md). Karliah's maternal grandparents are Queen [Barenziah](Lore_Barenziah.md) and a Nightingale thief by the name of Drayven Indoril. Karliah's mother Dralsi taught her the art of thievery and how to survive in [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), living as a rogue. However, she did not induct Karliah into the Nightingales before her death. Karliah eventually became a member of Skyrim's [Thieves Guild](Lore_Thieves_Guild.md) and was inducted into the Nightingales by Guild Master [Gallus Desidenius](Lore_Gallus_Desidenius.md), who became her lover at some point. She was exiled from the Guild for 25 years after allegedly murdering Gallus. In reality, she was framed for Gallus' murder, which was actually committed by [Mercer Frey](Lore_Mercer_Frey.md), a former Nightingale, who stole Nocturnal's [Skeleton Key](Lore_Skeleton_Key.md) from the [Twilight Sepulcher](Lore_Twilight_Sepulcher.md), and took Gallus' place as Guild Master. With the help from the [Last Dragonborn](Lore_Last_Dragonborn.md), Karliah exposed Mercer, reformed the Nightingale Trinity, and tracked Mercer down to [Irkngthand](Lore_Irkngthand.md) where he was killed. With Gallus' death avenged she along with [Brynjolf](Lore_Brynjolf.md) named the Dragonborn, the next Guild Master and after tasking the Dragonborn with returning the Skeleton Key to the Twilight Sepulcher, Karliah met the ghost of Gallus where they said their farewells. Karliah would soon take up residence in [Nightingale Hall](Lore_Nightingale_Hall.md) and at some point attended the ceremony for the new Guild Master.

#### Karoodil (fl. 4E 405)
[King Karoodil](Lore_Karoodil.md), who also bore the name **Reman**,<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_nb1)</sup><sup>[[nb 2]](#intnote_nb2)</sup><sup>[[nb 3]](#intnote_nb3)</sup> was the [High Elven](Lore_Altmer.md) king of [Firsthold](Lore_Firsthold.md), a city-state in the northern region of [Vafe](Lore_Vafe.md), located on [Auridon](Lore_Auridon.md) in the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md).

#### Karrod (fl. 3E 5th century)
[Karrod](Lore_Karrod.md) was a mysterious [Redguard](Lore_Redguard.md) warrior and a lifelong friend and protector of [Hlaalu Helseth](Lore_Hlaalu_Helseth.md). He was long perceived as being deaf and dumb due to his refusal to speak to anyone.

Karrod was born in the city of [Wayrest](Lore_Wayrest.md) in [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md). As a child, Karrod's father gave him an odd [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md) longsword, and told him that none would defeat him in battle until the blade's rightful owner came to claim it. Karrod was then seemingly orphaned on the streets of Wayrest, and turned to thievery. After he had the audacity to attempt to rob [Princess Elysana](Lore_Elysana.md), her step-brother Prince Helseth took him into his employ. Karrod grew to be extremely loyal towards Helseth for taking him in. True to his father's prophecy, he also remained undefeated in battle and became a deadly warrior. Helseth proclaimed him his Champion, and Karrod joined the ranks of the [Royal Guard](Lore_Royal_Guard.md) when Helseth inherited the Throne of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md) and moved to [Mournhold](Lore_Mournhold.md).

In [3E 427](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_427), the [Nerevarine](Lore_Nerevarine.md) came to Mournhold. In order to earn the King's trust, the Nerevarine duelled Karrod, and Karrod lost. This also earned the Nerevarine the warrior's respect and friendship, and his admission of defeat was the first time Helseth had ever heard him speak. The goddess [Almalexia](Lore_Almalexia.md) later ordered the Nerevarine to reforge [Trueflame](Lore_Trueflame.md), the Blade of Nerevar. As fate would have it, the three fractured pieces of the blade had come to Mournhold. Karrod's Dwemer [weapon](Lore_Weapons.md) was one such piece, and the warrior duly surrendered his blade to the Nerevarine.

#### Karstaag (?b - [3E 427](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_427))
[Karstaag](Lore_Karstaag.md) was a [Frost Giant](Lore_Frost_Giant.md) who lived along the northern coast of [Solstheim](Lore_Solstheim.md) in the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md). He resided in [Castle Karstaag](Lore_Castle_Karstaag.md), a giant fortress of ice. He employed a large number of [rieklings](Lore_Riekling.md) to guard and maintain his castle. The [Skaal](Lore_Skaal.md) held an uneasy truce with him. In [3E 427](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_427), as part of the [Bloodmoon Prophecy](Lore_Bloodmoon_Prophecy.md), Karstaag was taken from his castle by the [Hounds](Lore_Werewolf.md) of [Hircine](Lore_Hircine.md) to serve as Prey in the [Hunter's Game](Lore_Hunter%27s_Game.md). He and three other champions from the island were brought to a maze beneath the [Mortrag Glacier](Lore_Mortrag_Glacier.md), which served as the hunting ground. When the Hunt began, Karstaag successfully navigated the werewolf-filled maze and made it to the central chamber, where he would face off against an aspect of Hircine to earn his freedom. However, Karstaag was then killed by the [Nerevarine](Lore_Nerevarine.md), another participant in the Hunt.

Following the Nerevarine's defeat of the Hunter, the glacier collapsed, and Karstaag's remains were buried in the ice. His castle was taken over by the rieklings and fell into ruin, gradually losing its shape. Through unknown means, the majority of Karstaag's skeletal remains were recovered and placed upon his throne. Spell tomes to learn the frost spell "Karstaag's Breath" were in circulation circa [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433). His skull was discovered in [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201) by the [Last Dragonborn](Lore_Hero.md), embedded in the wall of a glacial cave. The Dragonborn placed the skull on Karstaag's throne, summoning his angry [spirit](Lore_Ghost.md). Karstaag's ghost was defeated, and temporarily gifted the Dragonborn with the power to summon his spirit to aid in battle.

#### Druid King Kasorayn (fl. 1E 4th century)
[Kasorayn](Lore_Kasorayn.md) was the **Druid King** (or **Archdruid**), specifically the last in a line of [Druid Kings](Lore_Druid_King.md), and his position was of a [druidic](Lore_Druids.md) philosophical figure that is revered in [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md). He was active in the fourth century of the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md). Kasorayn is the most well-known druidic [seer](Lore_Sight.md), and was listed alongside Sage [Voernet](Lore_Voernet.md) and [Gyron Vardengroet](Lore_Gyron_Vardengroet.md) as one of the most powerful Breton mages in history.

#### Emperor Kastav (?b - [1E 2812](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_2812))
[Kastav](Lore_Kastav.md) was the second emperor of the [Second Empire](Lore_Second_Empire.md) and [Reman Dynasty](Lore_Reman_Dynasty.md). Details of his life and reign are scarce, but sources describe him as an incompetent ruler.

In [1E 2801](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_2801), Kastav ordered the [Dragonguard](Lore_Dragonguard.md) of [Sky Haven Temple](Lore_Sky_Haven_Temple.md) in [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) to seize hostages from [Markarth](Lore_Markarth.md) and [Hroldan](Lore_Old_Hroldan.md) to ensure that the jarls met their conscription quotas. In [1E 2804](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_2804), the Winterhold Rebellion broke out, but the Master of Sky Haven Temple refused orders to send the Dragonguard to help suppress it, so the Emperor cut off supplies to the temple. Kastav then sent Kalien, an [Akaviri](Lore_Akaviri.md) who had been denied entry into the Dragonguard, to suppress the rebellion. Kalien sacked [Winterhold](Lore_Winterhold_(city).md), but this only exacerbated the situation, as the people of Skyrim mistakenly assumed Kalien was a member of the Dragonguard and placed Sky Haven Temple under siege from [1E 2805](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_2805) to [1E 2806](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_2806) in retaliation for the sacking. Kastav was deposed in 1E 2804 and succeeded by [Reman II](Lore_Reman_II.md), whose first notable endeavor was to negotiate a swift end to the rebellion.

After his disposition, he lived for several years in exile alongside his honor guard. In [1E 2812](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_2812), Kastav died in the [Murkmire](Lore_Murkmire.md) region of [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md) and was buried near the future site of [Blackrose Prison](Lore_Blackrose_Prison.md). By the [Fourth Era](Lore_Fourth_Era.md), a fort in the [Winterhold](Lore_Winterhold_(region).md) region of Skyrim bore his name.

#### Empress Katariah (?b - [3E 200](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_200))
[Katariah Ra'athim](Lore_Katariah.md) (also enumerated as **Katariah I**) was the thirteenth [empress](Lore_Cyrodilic_Emperors.md) of the [Third Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md) and [Septim Dynasty](Lore_Septim_Dynasty.md), reigning for approximately forty-six years, from [3E 153](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_153) to [3E 200](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_200). Katariah was originally the consort of the mad emperor [Pelagius III](Lore_Pelagius_III.md), but in [3E 147](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_147), he began biting and attacking visitors to the [Imperial Palace](Lore_White-Gold_Tower.md), resulting in his commitment to an asylum and Katariah being named empress regent. After Pelagius' death in 3E 153, Katariah was proclaimed Empress of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). As the first and only [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) to rule all of Tamriel, she faced opposition from the [Elder Council](Lore_Elder_Council.md), and the council assumed much greater power and responsibility during her reign. Nonetheless, Katariah's forty-six-year reign was one of the most celebrated in Tamriel's history, and she was popular with the common people. She was preceded by her husband, Pelagius III, and was succeeded by her son, [Cassynder](Lore_Cassynder.md).

#### Kathutet (?b - ?d)
[Kathutet](Lore_Kathutet.md) is a [Dremora](Lore_Dremora.md) whose clan is based at [Ganonah](Lore_Ganonah.md), a region of the [Deadlands](Lore_Deadlands.md). His kin include Amkaos, Ranyu, and Orthe. The [Xivilai](Lore_Xivilai.md) [Anaxes](Lore_Anaxes.md) serves him as one of his agents.

#### Katrica the Maiden (fl. before 3E 405)
**Katrica** (sometimes called **the Maiden**) was a warrior-maiden that is associated with the [Redguards](Lore_Redguard.md) of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md). They often use the exclamation, *"by Katrica"*, or *"by the Maiden"*.<sup>[[3]](#cite_note-DFRaces-3)</sup> Many years ago, the county of [Ayasofya](Lore_Ayasofya.md) was attacked by an unknown threat but was saved Katrica. Ever since then, on the 2nd of [Last Seed](Lore_Last_Seed.md), the county celebrates her victory and their salvation with the holiday, [Maiden Katrica](Lore_Maiden_Katrica.md), a large celebration.<sup>[[4]](#cite_note-DFHolidays-4)</sup>

#### Witch-Lord Kegairn (2E? b - 2E 582)
**Witch-Lord** [Kegairn](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Kegairn) was a powerful [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md) [necromancer](Lore_Necromancy.md) associated with the [Ghostsong Clan](Lore_Ghostsong_Clan.md). He was also a known practitioner of [void magic](Lore_Void_Magic.md) rituals. Alongside Voidmother [Elgroalif](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Elgroalif) and select clan members, they conducted a series of dark rituals at [Four Skull Lookout](Lore_Four_Skull_Lookout.md), endangering the entire region of [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md).

#### Keirgo (2E? b - 2E 326)
[Keirgo](Lore_Keirgo.md) was the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md) King of [Anequina](Lore_Anequina.md), whose union with Queen [Eshita](Lore_Eshita.md) of [Pellitine](Lore_Pellitine.md) in [2E 309](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_309) led to the founding of the [Elsweyr Confederacy](Lore_Elsweyr_Confederacy.md) and peace between the long-feuding kingdoms. The northern kingdom, Anequina is known for its nomadic and warrior tribes and after the marriage, the main city of [Ne Quin-al](Lore_Ne_Quin-al_(city).md) became the capital of the confederacy. Keirgo's attempt to keep the alliance together failed and later gave rise to the [Mane](Lore_Mane.md).

#### Councilor Kelgan the Taker of Teeth (fl. 2E 533 - 534)
**Councilor** [Kelgan](Lore_Kelgan.md) the **Taker of Teeth**, also known as the **Troll-Breaker** was a member of the [Elder Council](Lore_Elder_Council.md) during the reign of [Emperor](Lore_Tamrielic_Emperors.md) [Durcorach](Lore_Durcorach.md), the founder of the [Longhouse Dynasty](Lore_Longhouse_Emperors.md).

#### Kellen (fl. 4E)
[Kellen](Lore_Kellen.md) was an old [Moth Priest](Lore_Moth_Priests.md) and a storyteller whom has read the [Elder Scrolls](Lore_Elder_Scrolls.md), who was active in the time after the [Great War](Lore_Great_War.md) and during the [Return of the Dragons](Lore_Return_of_the_Dragons.md) in the [Fourth Era](Lore_Fourth_Era.md). Kellen and travelled with a [Khajiit](Lore_Khajiit.md) companion named Nagh, as well as a pet [owl](Lore_Owl.md). He recited stories forgotten to memory and now only known through legend, the veracity of his tales however remains ambiguous.

#### Keshu the Black Fin (fl. 2E 572 - 582)
[Keshu the Black Fin](Lore_Keshu_the_Black_Fin.md) was a great [Argonian](Lore_Argonian.md) hero and founder of a movement for an advanced Saxhleel society. Upon the founding of the [Ebonheart Pact](Lore_Ebonheart_Pact.md), she was named general of Pact forces in [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) and fought briefly in [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) during the [Three Banners War](Lore_Three_Banners_War.md). In later life, she became the governor of [Gideon](Lore_Gideon.md) in [Blackwood](Lore_Blackwood.md).

#### Kestic, the Forest King (?b - [1E 808](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_808))
[Kestic](Lore_Kestic.md) was a [Nedic](Lore_Nede.md) king during the early-mid [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md). In his time, he was **the Forest King**, leading the northern clans of the forest region. He was the last of his title, as the Nedic civilization of the [Deathlands](Lore_Deathlands.md) fell with the arrival of the [Ra Gada](Lore_Ra_Gada.md) in [1E 808](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_808).

#### Kier-Jo Chorvak (fl. 3E 400s)
[Kier-Jo Chorvak](Lore_Kier-Jo_Chorvak.md) (sometimes **Kiergo Chorvak** or **Kier-Jo the Chorvak**) was a descendant of the famed [King Keirgo](Lore_Keirgo.md) of [Anequina](Lore_Anequina.md) and a published scholar of the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md). Additionally, Kier-Jo held the title of "Knight of [the Mane](Lore_Mane.md)", sometimes stylized as "Western Knight of the Sandy Mane." Kier-Jo was fond of [elves](Lore_Elf.md) and [nymphs](Lore_Nymph.md), and had a weakness for "elven beauty." He authored a scholarly work on the [Ayleids](Lore_Ayleid.md) called *[The Wild Elves](Lore_The_Wild_Elves.md)*. Despite his scholarly status, Kier-Jo is often described as a liar.

#### Kinlord Kevarian Corelanya the Defender (1E ? - [1E 1194](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_1194))
**Kinlord** [Kevarian Corelanya](Lore_Kevarian_Corelanya.md) **the Defender** was the ruler of [Clan Corelanya](Lore_Clan_Corelanya.md) and the city of [Sunport](Lore_Sunport.md) during the second half of the 12th century of the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md). He partook in many wars against the Stone-Nest [Argonians](Lore_Argonian.md).

#### Chieftain Kevinne Blightheart (?b - [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582))
**Chieftain** [Kevinne Blightheart](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Kevinne_Blightheart) was a [Reachman](Lore_Reachmen.md) leader of the [Boneshaper Clan](Lore_Boneshaper_Clan.md) active in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582). He made an alliance with two other Reachfolk clans: the [Rageclaws](Lore_Rageclaw_Clan.md) and the [Stonetalons](Lore_Stonetalon_Clan.md) and signed the treaty on 3rd of the Frost Fall in 2E 582. The clans aligned themselves with the [Cult of the Black Worm](Lore_Cult_of_the_Black_Worm.md), which promised power and blessings of [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md). and invaded [the Rift](Lore_The_Rift.md) in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582).

#### Queen Khamira ([2E 563](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_563) - ?d)
[Khamira](Lore_Khamira.md) was Queen of [Anequina](Lore_Anequina.md), the northern kingdom of [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md), from [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582). Born in [2E 563](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_563) to King [Hemakar](Lore_Hemakar.md) and Queen [Numara](Lore_Numara.md) of Anequina, she was presumed dead with the rest of her family after [Euraxia Tharn](Lore_Euraxia_Tharn.md) overthrew her father in the [Frostfall Coup](Lore_Frostfall_Coup.md) of [2E 576](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_576). She had in fact survived, and covertly took up arms in a resistance movement against Euraxia's rule known as the Northern Elsweyr Defense Force. After unsuccessfully attempting to stop the unwitting release of [Kaalgrontiid](Lore_Kaalgrontiid.md) and his rage of [Dragons](Lore_Dragon.md) by [Abnur Tharn](Lore_Abnur_Tharn.md) in 2E 582, she subsequently helped to defend the city of [Riverhold](Lore_Riverhold.md) from the combined assault of Euraxia's forces and the Dragon Bahlokdaan, and revealed her true identity there after their defeat. After Euraxia's deposition she banished Kaalgrontiid with the help of Abnur Tharn and [the Vestige](Lore_The_Vestige.md), and was crowned queen soon afterwards. As monarch she sought to restore the Elsweyr Confederacy between Anequina and [Pellitine](Lore_Pellitine.md).

#### Khargol gro-Boguk (fl. 3E 427)
[Khargol gro-Boguk](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Khargol_gro-Boguk) (also spelled **Khargol gro-Bogúk**) was an [Orc](Lore_Orc.md) [barbarian](Lore_Barbarians.md) who was a master of the unarmored fighting style and lived on [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md). Khargol was friends with the Orc woman known as 'the Wraith' Kepkajna gra-Minfang. He mentored her in the ways of the unarmored style which helped her maintain her wedding dress on a contentious travel to her wedding. These events went on to be published in the book; *[The Wraith's Wedding Dowry](Lore_The_Wraith%27s_Wedding_Dowry.md)*.

By [3E 427](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_427), Khargol was set up in the abandoned [Dwemer tower](Lore_Dwemer_Ruins.md) near the town of [Dagon Fel](Lore_Dagon_Fel.md) where he continued to offer to train others in the art of the unarmored combat.

#### Khartag (?b - [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582))
[Khartag](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Khartag) was an [Orc](Lore_Orc.md) smuggler and abolitionist who operated during the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md) around [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582). Khartag was a local legend among the Orsimer, not only for being a veteran of the [Daggerfall Covenant](Lore_Daggerfall_Covenant.md) and founder of the [Ropefish](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Ropefish) gang of abolitionists, but as the namesake of the site known as [Khartag Point](Lore_Khartag_Point.md), a monument to him and the Orcs in general.

#### Khosey (fl. 1E 200)
Author of the [Tamrilean Tractates](Lore_Tamrilean_Tractates.md), in which he transcribes a first hand account of the discovery of the [Bretons](Lore_Breton.md) by a [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) hunting party.<sup>[[5]](#cite_note-PGE1High-5)</sup><sup>[[6]](#cite_note-PGE3High-6)</sup> He lived in ca. 1E 200.<sup>[[7]](#cite_note-HTo N-7)</sup><sup>[[8]](#cite_note-8)</sup>

#### Empress Kintyra I (?b - [3E 53](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_53))
[Kintyra Septim I](Lore_Kintyra_I.md) was the third [empress](Lore_Cyrodilic_Emperors.md) of the [Third Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md) and [Septim Dynasty](Lore_Septim_Dynasty.md), reigning for twelve years, from [3E 41](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_41) to [3E 53](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_53). She was preceded by her first cousin once removed, [Pelagius I](Lore_Pelagius_I.md), and was succeeded by her son, [Uriel I](Lore_Uriel_I.md).

#### Empress Kintyra II ([3E 104](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_104) - [3E 123](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_123))
[Kintyra Septim II](Lore_Kintyra_II.md) was the eighth monarch of the [Septim Dynasty](Lore_Septim_Dynasty.md), the former ruling family of the [Third Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md). She was preceded by her father, [Antiochus I](Lore_Antiochus.md) and was succeeded by her cousin, [Uriel III](Lore_Uriel_III.md). Her story is considered one of the saddest tales in the Empire, from the accusations that questioned her legitimacy to the throne, to her controversial death in the midst of the [War of the Red Diamond](Lore_War_of_the_Red_Diamond.md). Despite her young age and short reign, Kintyra II was recognized as an accomplished [mystic](Lore_Mysticism.md) and sorceress. She was named after her great-great-great grandmother, [Kintyra I](Lore_Kintyra_I.md).<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_Kintyra_I)</sup>

#### High King Kjoric the White (?b - [1E 477-78](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_477))
[Kjoric the White](Lore_Kjoric_the_White.md) was the High King/High Chieftain of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), after the reign of High King [Olaf One-Eye](Lore_Olaf_One-Eye.md) and before his son, [Hoag Merkiller](Lore_Hoag_Merkiller.md). In his lifetime, he was a soft-spoken leader and attained power across the province when the [Crown of Verity](Lore_Crown_of_Verity.md) chose him over the [moot](Lore_Moot.md) -chosen warrior. Ever since then, no one argued the authority of the Crown.

#### Prince Klaius (fl. 3E 300s/400s)
[Prince Klaius](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Klaius) was the father of [Queen Mynisera](Lore_Mynisera.md), who was wedded to [King Lysandus](Lore_Lysandus.md) of [Daggerfall](Lore_Daggerfall_(kingdom).md). At one time Prince Klaius, in the company of King Lysandus, raided a settlement of [Orcs](Lore_Orc.md) and gave his men leave to execute all the children, under the belief that they would only grow strong and hearty—and only an "unwise leader" would show mercy to "subhumans." Regretting this event and not stopping Klaius's actions during it, seemingly led to Lysandus attempting to retire from the world, absconding from his throne and abandoning his wife to live with his [secret lover](Lore_Medora_Direnni.md).

#### Knavus Tharn (fl. early 2E)
[Knavus Tharn](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Knavus_Tharn) was an [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) member of the royal [House Tharn](Lore_Tharn.md) of [Cheydinhal](Lore_Cheydinhal.md), ancestor and descendant of numerous famous figures.

#### Harbinger Kodlak Whitemane (?b - [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201))
[Kodlak Whitemane](Lore_Kodlak_Whitemane.md) was a [Nord](Lore_Nord.md) warrior and a well-respected Harbinger of the [Companions](Lore_Companions.md). He avoided politics, and maintained the Companions' long-standing tradition of abstaining from political conflicts during the [Stormcloak Rebellion](Lore_Stormcloak_Rebellion.md) (although he did worship [Talos](Lore_Talos.md)). He was also something of a philosopher, prone to pondering on the meaning of honor and nobility. He lost his family at a young age, when he was little more than a boy. His predecessor, the Harbinger [Askar](Lore_Askar.md), found him working as a bodyguard in [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), and recruited him. The Companions quickly became his new family, and he became Harbinger in [4E 181](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_181). As Harbinger, Kodlak has commanded the Companions, balancing his tactical skill, ferocity in combat, and commanding presence. He maintained that family and honor are the most important things to the Companions, and that they should deal with problems head-on, finding honor in life through glory in battle. Legends of the Companions speak of Kodlak's many great feats, such as Kodlak and another Companion fighting off one hundred and one [Orc](Lore_Orc.md) berserkers.

For more information, see the [lore article](Lore_Kodlak_Whitemane.md).

#### Kontin Arynx (fl. [3E 121](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_121))
[Kontin Arynx](Lore_Kontin_Arynx.md) was the consort of the [Dragonborn Empress](Lore_Dragonborn.md) [Kintyra Septim II](Lore_Kintyra_II.md), who died defending the Imperial Forts on the [islands](Lore_Northeast_Archipelago.md) of easternmost [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md) during the [War of the Red Diamond](Lore_War_of_the_Red_Diamond.md).

#### Jarl Korir (fl. [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201))
The [Nord](Lore_Nord.md) Jarl of [Winterhold](Lore_Winterhold_(region).md) in [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201). Like most of his subjects, Korir held hatred and suspicion for the [College of Winterhold](Lore_College_of_Winterhold.md), and vowed to have them banned. He supported the [Stormcloaks](Lore_Stormcloaks.md) during the [Stormcloak Rebellion](Lore_Stormcloak_Rebellion.md), and had a son named Assur.<sup>[[9]](#cite_note-SRKorir-9)</sup>

#### Koron (fl. before [1E 808](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_808))
[Koron](Lore_Koron.md) was a name of a prominent [conjurer](Lore_Conjuration.md) or term associated with the practice of Conjuration. Some [spells](Lore_Spells.md) of high importance for the study of conjuration, were named after Koron, presumably following the practice of naming spells after their creators. Those spells were later modified by other conjurers for various purposes.

#### Dragon Priest Korthor (fl. [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md))
A [Nord](Lore_Nord.md) [Dragon Priest](Lore_Dragon_Priest.md) who was entombed in the Nordic barrow of Vuldngrav. Sometime in the [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md), [Sheogorath](Lore_Sheogorath.md) visited Vuldngrav and left behind the [Fork of Horripilation](Lore_Fork_of_Horripilation.md) with Korthor.<sup>[[10]](#cite_note-ESOHaskill-10)</sup> It remained there until [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), when a member of the [Mages Guild](Lore_Mages_Guild.md) was tasked by [Haskill](Lore_Haskill.md) to enter Vuldngrav and reclaim the Fork on behalf of his Prince.<sup>[[11]](#cite_note-Simply Misplaced-11)</sup> Accompanied by the spirt of [Shalidor](Lore_Shalidor.md), they entered the tomb and reclaimed the Fork from the slain Korthor who was reluctant to let go of it.<sup>[[11]](#cite_note-Simply Misplaced-11)</sup><sup>[[12]](#cite_note-ESOKorthor-12)</sup>

#### Krahjotdaan
[Krahjotdaan](Lore_Krahjotdaan.md) is a high [dragon](Lore_Dragon.md) whose name means "Cold Maw Doom" in the [Dragon Language](Lore_Dragon_Language.md).

Krahjotdaan was slain by the [Dragonguard](Lore_Dragonguard.md) in [1E 2871](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_2871), in the southern [Jerall Mountains](Lore_Jerall_Mountains.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). The dragon's name was supposedly confirmed to the Dragonguard by its own account. A fang was taken from its corpse and inscribed to depict their defeat. Their death was later documented by the Dragonguard in [2E 373](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_373). Due to the nature of dragons, Krahjotdaan may not be truly dead and therefore could rise again.

#### Kronin (fl. 1E)
[Kronin](Lore_Kronin.md) was a [Chimer](Lore_Chimer.md)<sup>[[Note 1]](#intnote_Chimer)</sup> noble from the early [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md). In life, he was the King of [Ebonheart](Lore_Ebonheart.md)<sup>[[Note 2]](#intnote_King)</sup> and a member of the [Ra'athim Clan](Lore_Ra%27athim.md). Kronin had two sons, [Cruethys](Lore_Cruethys.md) and [Moraelyn](Lore_Moraelyn.md), and a stepson, [Ephen](Lore_Ephen.md). Kronin's house allegiance is never explicitly stated but the Ra'athim clan's ruling house was [House Mora](Lore_House_Mora.md) before it was adopted into [House Hlaalu](Lore_House_Hlaalu.md) at an unknown time.

When the [Nordic Empire](Lore_First_Empire_of_the_Nords.md) drove Kronin and his sons from Ebonheart, the Chimer family took to raiding with intense campaigns of guerrilla warfare to attempt to take their land back. They were successful, and upon Kronin’s passing, the mantle of leadership was passed to his eldest son Cruethys, who was later succeeded by Moraelyn. Ephen would go on to be worshiped as a god of sorts. His [ebony](Lore_Ebony.md) dagger, known as [Tooth](Lore_Dragon%27s_Tooth.md), which had a [dragon's](Lore_Dragon.md) tooth for a hilt, passed from the hands of Kronin, to Cruethys, to Moraelyn, and finally to Moraelyn's protégée, [Edward](Lore_Edward.md).

#### Dragon Priest Krosis (?b - [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201))
[Krosis](Lore_Krosis.md) was a high ranking member of the [Dragon Cult](Lore_Dragon_Cult.md), and a [Dragon Priest](Lore_Dragon_Priest.md) in the [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md). After his demise, Krosis was entombed atop [Shearpoint](Lore_Shearpoint.md), and was reawakened from his slumber in the [Fourth Era](Lore_Fourth_Era.md). As a Dragon Priest, he was a powerful mage, also able to wield the [Thu'um](Lore_Thu%27um.md) in battle.

#### Krosulhah (?b - [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201))
[Krosulhah](Lore_Krosulhah.md) was a [dragon](Lore_Dragon.md) whose name meant **Sorcerer-Day-Mind** in the [Dragon Language](Lore_Dragon_Language.md). At a certain point in history, Krosulhah swore allegiance to [Miraak](Lore_Miraak.md) and considered him the only true [Dovahkiin](Lore_Dragonborn.md).

In [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201), the [Last Dragonborn](Lore_Hero.md#Last_Dragonborn) and [Neloth](Lore_Neloth.md) traveled to [Nchardak](Lore_Nchardak.md) to retrieve the [Black Book](Lore_Black_Books.md) that was kept there. After the successful retrieval of the artifact, they were attacked by Krosulhah, who was sent to kill the Last Dragonborn in the name of Miraak. They did battle at the entrance to Nchardak, and the Dragonborn, aided by Neloth, absorbed the dragon's soul. Having had his soul devoured by another dovah, Krosulhah was killed permanently and cannot be raised again.

#### Kruntharth (?b - [2E 563](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_563))
[Kruntharth](Lore_Kruntharth.md) was a notorious [Sea Giant](Lore_Sea_Giant.md) pirate and leader of the raiders. Leading an armada of ships, Kruntharth subjected [Solitude](Lore_Solitude.md) to a harrowing siege until High King [Svargrim](Lore_Svargrim.md) valiantly confronted and defeated the fearsome Sea Giant, ending his reign of terror and bringing relief to the people of Western [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md).

#### Kruziikrel ([Dawn Era](Lore_Dawn_Era.md) - [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201))
[Kruziikrel](Lore_Kruziikrel.md) was a [dragon](Lore_Dragon.md) whose name meant "Dominate-Enlightenment" in the [Dragon Language](Lore_Dragon_Language.md).

Little is known about Kruziikrel's past. At a certain point in history, he swore allegiance to [Miraak](Lore_Miraak.md), though whether he did so willingly or was compelled through Miraak's mastery of [Thu'um](Lore_Thu%27um.md) is unknown.

In [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201), the [Last Dragonborn](Lore_Hero.md) traveled to [Apocrypha](Lore_Apocrypha.md) to challenge Miraak. Through the use of the [Thu'um](Lore_Thu%27um.md), they swayed a dragon [Sahrotaar](Lore_Sahrotaar.md) to betray Miraak. He helped them to reach the First Dragonborn on the summit of Apocrypha where the Last Dragonborn confronted Miraak. It was there where he called the mighty dragons [Relonikiv](Lore_Relonikiv.md) and Kruziikrel to aid him in the battle. During the fight Miraak absorbed Kruziikrel's soul to regain vitality, killing him in the process. Having had his soul devoured by another dovah, Kruziikrel was killed permanently and cannot be raised again.

#### King Kurog gro-Bagrakh ([2E 541](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_541) - [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582))
[Kurog gro-Orsinium](Lore_Kurog_gro-Orsinium.md), also known as **Kurog gro-Bagrakh**, was the King of the [Orcs](Lore_Orc.md) of the [Wrothgar Mountains](Lore_Wrothgarian_Mountains.md) during the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md). He aided King [Emeric](Lore_Emeric.md) during [Ranser's War](Lore_Ranser%27s_War.md) in exchange for the return of [Orsinium](Lore_Orsinium.md), and afterward joined the [Daggerfall Covenant](Lore_Daggerfall_Covenant.md). Kurog's reign came to an end in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582)<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_nb1)</sup> when, frustrated by the constant disagreements among his clan chiefs, he engineered a crisis between [Trinimac](Lore_Trinimac.md) and [Malacath](Lore_Malacath.md) cults in order to discredit his main rival, [Bazrag gro-Fharun](Lore_Bazrag_gro-Fharun.md), and eliminate the other chiefs. The king's treachery was discovered and he was slain, resulting in Bazrag being crowned the next King of the Orcs.

#### Kvenel the Tongue (fl. 1E)
[Kvenel the Tongue](Lore_Kvenel_the_Tongue.md) was an ancient [Nord](Lore_Nord.md) hero, and master of the [thu'um](Lore_Thu%27um.md). It is said his favored [weapons](Lore_Weapons.md) to carry into battle were a hand-axe and sword, named [Okin](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Skyrim:Okin) and [Eduj](Skyrim_Eduj.md) respectively. According to legend, Kvenel commissioned master [blacksmith](Lore_Smithing.md) Haman Forgefire to forge Okin for him, to match his beloved sword, Eduj.

Upon his death, Kvenel was entombed in [Volunruud](Lore_Volunruud.md), [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). His burial chamber was sealed with a special lock that could only be opened with two ceremonial replicas of Okin and Eduj, which were then put on display and guarded in other parts of the tomb. Memory of his life faded as the eras passed and he was largely forgotten, save for old hymns and mythic accounts. In [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201) the [Last Dragonborn](Lore_Hero.md) explored Volunruud and encountered the ghost of Kvenel. After defeating the spirit, Kvenel's legendary weapons were retrieved from his remains.

#### Kyanka (fl. late 2E)
[Kyanka](Lore_Kyanka.md) was a [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md) [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md) [weaponsmith](Lore_Smithing.md) and [enchanter](Lore_Enchanting.md). He was the creator of the [Mace of Slurring](Lore_Mace_of_Slurring.md), and was known for his rather warped sense of humor. He was apparently delighted at the thought of reducing opponents to a gibbering mess before crushing them to death.<sup>[[13]](#cite_note-TA-13)</sup>

#### Harbinger Kyrnil Long-Nose‎ (fl. 2E)
[Kyrnil Long-Nose](Lore_Kyrnil_Long-Nose.md) was a Harbinger of the [Companions](Lore_Companions.md) in the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). He was among the notable Harbingers recorded by [Swyk the Long-Sighted](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Swyk_the_Long-Sighted). He is credited with restoring the honor of the Companions after the dark periods of the Second Era.

#### Kyrtos (fl. 2E 582)
[Kyrtos](Lore_Kyrtos.md) was a [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md) [Briarheart](Lore_Briarheart.md) warrior of the [Winterborn Clan](Lore_Winterborn.md) and a descendant of ancient clan leaders [Mercedne](Lore_Mercedene.md) and [Evandene Tusk Collector](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Evandene_Tusk_Collector). He worked to stop the violence between the Winterborn and the [Orsimer](Lore_Orc.md) and attmepted to prevent Winterborn raids in the Orc occupied territories. He penned *[Malacath and the Reach](Lore_Malacath_and_the_Reach.md)* and was a staunch opponent of [Daedra](Lore_Daedra.md) worship.

## References
1. [^](#cite_ref-Sai_1-0) [Sai Sahan](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Sai_Sahan)'s dialogue in [ESO](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Online)
2. [^](#cite_ref-2) [*Annals of the Dragonguard*](Lore_Annals_of_the_Dragonguard.md) — [Brother Annulus](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Brother_Annulus)
3. [^](#cite_ref-DFRaces_3-0) [Redguard](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Daggerfall:Redguard) exclamations in *[Daggerfall](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Daggerfall:Daggerfall)*
4. [^](#cite_ref-DFHolidays_4-0) [Maiden Katrica](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Daggerfall:Holidays#Maiden_Katrica) holiday description in *[Daggerfall](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Daggerfall:Daggerfall)*
5. [^](#cite_ref-PGE1High_5-0) [*Pocket Guide to the Empire, 1st Edition: High Rock*](Lore_Pocket_Guide_to_the_Empire,_1st_Edition_High_Rock.md) — [Imperial Geographical Society](Lore_Imperial_Geographical_Society.md), [2E 864](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_864)
6. [^](#cite_ref-PGE3High_6-0) [*Pocket Guide to the Empire, 3rd Edition: The Sons and Daughter of the Direnni West: High Rock*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Pocket_Guide_to_the_Empire,_3rd_Edition_High_Rock) — [Imperial Geographical Society](Lore_Imperial_Geographical_Society.md), [3E 432](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_432)
7. [^](#cite_ref-HTo N_7-0) [*House Tharn of Nibenay*](Lore_House_Tharn_of_Nibenay.md) — [Count Opius Voteporix](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Count_Opius_Voteporix)
8. [^](#cite_ref-8) [*Chancellor Abnur Tharn Answers Your Questions*](Lore_Chancellor_Abnur_Tharn_Answers_Your_Questions.md) — [Chancellor Abnur Tharn](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Lord_Abnur_Tharn)
9. [^](#cite_ref-SRKorir_9-0) [Korir](Skyrim_Korir.md)'s dialogue in *[Skyrim](Skyrim_Skyrim.md)*
10. [^](#cite_ref-ESOHaskill_10-0) [Haskill](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Haskill)'s dialogue during [Simply Misplaced](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Simply_Misplaced) in [ESO](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Online)
11. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-Simply Misplaced_11-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-Simply Misplaced_11-1)***</sup> Events of [Simply Misplaced](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Simply_Misplaced) in [ESO](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Online)
12. [^](#cite_ref-ESOKorthor_12-0) [Korthor](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Korthor)'s dialogue during [Simply Misplaced](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Simply_Misplaced) in [ESO](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Online)
13. [^](#cite_ref-TA_13-0) [Torasa Aram](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Tribunal:Torasa_Aram)'s dialogue in *[Morrowind](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Morrowind:Morrowind): [Tribunal](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Tribunal:Tribunal)*