# Long-Launcher

Long-Launcher was the legendary longbow [artifact](Lore_Artifacts.md) of [Ysgramor](Lore_Ysgramor.md). He used it during many hunts and battles throughout the course of his life in both the [Atmoran](Lore_Atmora.md) [Frostwood](Lore_Atmoran_Frostwood.md) and in [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). During his time in Atmora, the bow once needed to be re-strung, so Ysgramor collected the laments of the [Giant](Lore_Giant.md) -Wives and brought them to individuals known as [Froa](Lore_Froa.md) and [Grosta](Lore_Grosta.md) who twisted them into the Woeful Bowstring. When the bow made use of this new bowstring, it took on a form of sentience, sighing when Ysgramor held it and moaning whenever it was shot.

Ysgramor then used this restrung bow to hunt the White Stag of Forelgrim. It proved near impossible for Ysgramor to land a shot on the [stag](Lore_Stag.md), as it was quiet and elusive. A [hare](Lore_Hare.md) appeared before Ysgramor and told him that it knew the location of the stag because of its long ears, and that if Ysgramor also had long ears he could hear and successfully track the stag. The hare granted Ysgramor long ears upon his request, but a [fox](Lore_Fox.md) then emerged from the coppice and slew the hare, revealing himself to be [Shor](Lore_Shor.md). Shor the Fox reverted Ysgramor's ears back to normal and then revealed to Ysgramor that the hare was in fact [Herma Mora](Lore_Hermaeus_Mora.md) and nearly tricked him into becoming an [elf](Lore_Elf.md). He bid him to henceforth rely only on the methods of man and not the tricks of elf lest he become one, and encouraged him to continue his pursuit of the White Stag.<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-FAHM-1)</sup>

Ysgramor once again used the Long-Launcher with the Woeful Bowsting to slay Faldrosta the great Snow-Goose. He then plucked a great quill from her corpse and proceeded to use it to develop a [runic alphabet](Lore_Nordic.md#Atmoran_Dictionary) based on Elvish principles, which enabled the written transcription of Atmoran speech. Ysgramor's first work in this new form of writing was a chronicle of his own life and its events, solidifying him as the first human historian.<sup>[[2]](#cite_note-TOo TO-2)</sup>

The bow saw further use during the infamous [Night of Tears](Lore_Night_of_Tears.md) where the [Snow Elves](Lore_Snow_Elves.md) and [Nords](Lore_Nord.md) fought over the razing of [Saarthal](Lore_Saarthal.md). Ysgramor, with swift and accurate aim, fell an ancient Snow Elf wizard named [Serenarth](Lore_Serenarth_(Snow_Elf).md) with the bow. As Serenarth lay dying, he made a bargain with unknown but malevolent forces to swap his spirit with that of a Frost Atronach. His host form still persists to this day with the threat of thawing out and exacting vengeance upon Ysgramor's heirs.<sup>[[3]](#cite_note-EGTSkyrim-3)</sup>

## References
1. [^](#cite_ref-FAHM_1-0) [*Fragmentae Abyssum Hermaeus Morus*](Lore_Fragmentae_Abyssum_Hermaeus_Morus.md)
2. [^](#cite_ref-TOo TO_2-0) [*The Onus of the Oghma*](Lore_The_Onus_of_the_Oghma.md) — [Phrastus of Elinhir](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Phrastus_of_Elinhir)
3. [^](#cite_ref-EGTSkyrim_3-0) [*The Improved Emperor's Guide to Tamriel: Skyrim*](Lore_The_Improved_Emperor%27s_Guide_to_Tamriel_Skyrim.md) — [Flaccus Terentius](Lore_Flaccus_Terentius.md), [2E 581](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_581)