# Five Year War

The Five Year War was a war that took place between the [Bosmer](Lore_Bosmer.md) of Eastern [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md)<sup>[†](#intnote_eastorwest)</sup> and the [Khajiit](Lore_Khajiit.md) of [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md). The Bosmer claim that the war began in [3E 394](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_394) when Khajiit bandits started attacking wood caravans headed for Valenwood. The Khajiit claim that the war began in [3E 395](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_395) when the Bosmer attacked the city of [Torval](Lore_Torval.md) in retaliation for the bandit attacks. This border dispute soon turned into a bloody war that lasted for 4 years and 9 months.<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-CHOA-1)</sup> Thus it was named the Five Year War. Eventually, Elsweyr defeated Valenwood and expanded its territory slightly west, taking both banks of the [Xylo River](Lore_Xylo_River.md).<sup>[[2]](#cite_note-PGE3Sugar-2)</sup>

This war happened concurrently with the [War of the Blue Divide](Lore_War_of_the_Blue_Divide.md) between Western Valenwood and the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md) in [3E 396](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_396), resulting in a quick and short victory for the Summerset Isles and further compounding Valenwood's distress.<sup>[[3]](#cite_note-TDC-3)</sup>

#### Major Battles
- **Slaughter of Torval**, 3E 395. The Bosmer attacked the city of Torval and killed over a thousand citizens before being driven off by reinforcements from a nearby jungle tribe.<sup>[[4]](#cite_note-MUT-4)</sup> This battle is considered the start of the war.
- **Battle of Zelinin**. Elsweyr lost due to the tactics proposed by some [Nord](Lore_Nord.md) advisors from [Solitude](Lore_Solitude.md). Khajiit troops engaged in battle in heavy armor, with which they were not very skilled.
- ***Heart of Anequina***. This battle happened not long after the battle of Zelinin. Elsweyr got rid of the Nord advisors and wore their traditional medium armor into battle. This battle is regarded as the turning moment in the war. One of the participants of this battle was [Cherim](Lore_Cherim.md), maker of the tapestry "Heart of Anequina", which depicts the battle.<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-CHOA-1)</sup>
- **Battle at Fort Sphinxmoth**, [3E 396](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_396). The battle occurred not far from [Fort Sphinxmoth](Lore_Fort_Sphinxmoth.md) near the city of [Dune](Lore_Dune.md), in the north of Elsweyr. Although outnumbered, the Khajiit prevailed using some unconventional tactics.<sup>[[4]](#cite_note-MUT-4)</sup>
- **Sack of Athay**, [3E 397](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_397). After a truce was made between the warring sides, the Khajiit broke it by crossing the Xylo River and attacking Valenwood's borders. One of their first targets was the village of Athay. They burned the harbor and left only a handful of survivors. The nearby village of Grenos was destroyed soon afterward as well.<sup>[[5]](#cite_note-ADIF3-5)</sup>
- **The Vindisi Wild Hunt**, 3E 397. The desperate Bosmeri survivors of the recent truce-breaking attacks retreated to the ancient hamlet of Vindisi, where, being forced by the impending Khajiiti attack, they summoned a [Wild Hunt](Lore_Wild_Hunt.md) that completely destroyed the attacking forces. After being sealed off in the valley where Vindisi was located, the Wild Hunt turned on itself in a horrid display of "cannibalistic orgy", destroying the hamlet and all of its former mer-turned-monster occupants.<sup>[[6]](#cite_note-ADIF4-6)</sup>

## Notes
- | [^](#note_eastorwest) | Despite *The Daggerfall Chronicles* stating that it was western Valenwood that fought Elsweyr, this might be a typo. The specific claim is that Eastern Valenwood fought the Summerset Isles during the War of the Blue Divide while Western Valenwood fought Elsweyr. Geographically, this does not make a lot of sense. Later authors such as [Waughin Jarth](Lore_Waughin_Jarth.md) correct this mistake and state that it was eastern Valenwood in the historical fiction series "A Dance in Fire".<sup>[[3]](#cite_note-TDC-3)</sup><sup>[[7]](#cite_note-ADIF7-7)</sup> |
| --- | --- |

## References
1. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-CHOA_1-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-CHOA_1-1)***</sup> [*Cherim's Heart of Anequina*](Lore_Cherim%27s_Heart_of_Anequina.md) — [Livillus Perus](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Livillus_Perus), Professor at the Imperial University
2. [^](#cite_ref-PGE3Sugar_2-0) [*Pocket Guide to the Empire, 3rd Edition: Sugar and Blood: the Cats of the South*](Lore_Pocket_Guide_to_the_Empire,_3rd_Edition_Sugar_and_Blood.md) — [Imperial Geographical Society](Lore_Imperial_Geographical_Society.md), [3E 432](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_432)
3. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-TDC_3-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-TDC_3-1)***</sup> [The Daggerfall Chronicles](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Books:The_Daggerfall_Chronicles)
4. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-MUT_4-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-MUT_4-1)***</sup> [*Mixed Unit Tactics*](Lore_Mixed_Unit_Tactics.md) — [Codus Callonus](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Morrowind:Codus_Callonus)
5. [^](#cite_ref-ADIF3_5-0) [*A Dance in Fire, Chapter 3*](Lore_A_Dance_in_Fire,_Chapter_3.md) — [Waughin Jarth](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Waughin_Jarth)
6. [^](#cite_ref-ADIF4_6-0) [*A Dance in Fire, Chapter 4*](Lore_A_Dance_in_Fire,_Chapter_4.md) — [Waughin Jarth](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Waughin_Jarth)
7. [^](#cite_ref-ADIF7_7-0) [*A Dance in Fire, Chapter 7*](Lore_A_Dance_in_Fire,_Chapter_7.md) — [Waughin Jarth](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Waughin_Jarth)