#  Order of the Hidden Moon, Part I

| Book Information | | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Seen In: | - [Elder Scrolls Online](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Viti%27s_Notes:_Order_of_the_Hidden_Moon,_Part_I) ([Crown Store](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Crown_Store)) | | |
| Prev. | None | Next | *[Part II](Lore_Viti%27s_Notes__Order_of_the_Hidden_Moon,_Part_II.md)* |

Viti's Notes: Order of the Hidden Moon, Part I **by [High Cantor Viti](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#High_Cantor_Viti)** *Notes on the Hidden Moon hadaliit and Moon-singers of old* *
---
As the [Torval Curiata](Lore_Torval_Curiata.md) has no particular interest in preserving what they deem "heretical texts," information on the [Hidden Moon](Lore_Order_of_the_Hidden_Moon.md) has been difficult to find. Difficult, but not impossible. Landmarks survive that are Hidden Moon in name only, but there are [Khajiit](Lore_Khajiit.md) who miraculously still keep the old faith and know some of this extinct order. Hermits and nomads who do not stay still long enough to draw scrutiny from the likes of Inquisitors. Who pass faith down through oral tradition of stories and song. [Moon-singers](Lore_Moon-Singers.md) of the modern age, and others. In case these notes fall into the wrong hands, this one will keep her particular sources anonymous. Not that anyone would believe that much of what this one learned came from the [soul](Lore_Soul.md) of an ancient moon-singer currently resurrected as the twin soul of this one's brightest pupil. But Viti digresses.

It is as Zerith-var claimed: the Order of the Hidden Moon was a martial order of [necromancers](Lore_Necromancy.md). This order is believed to have existed since the [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md). But this is not necromancy of the likes of [Zumog Phoom](Lore_Zumog_Phoom.md), or that which this one's sister Eifa attempted to harness. Necromancy of the Hidden Moon, as Viti understands it, involves inviting forward the spirit of Khajiit on paths to the Crossing. In death, our souls wander, and our paths are darkened or clouded by our life's transgressions. Souls may clear their paths by answering the call of hadaliit of the Hidden Moon, who walk twilight paths in service to [Azurah](Lore_Azurah.md) all across [Nirni](Lore_Nirn.md). These invited souls give power to these hadaliit. Azurah's chosen. Power to attack, or protect, or heal. And for the short time they lend their aid, these souls are able to atone for misdeeds in life. Their paths to the Crossing are cleared.

Moon-singers today are storytellers and bards, who carry valuable history in their tales. Moon-singers of Zerith's age were more magically inclined with their songs, especially those who entered partnership with the Hidden Moon. If I may speak highly of our [Twilight Cantors](Lore_Twilight_Cantors.md) for a moment, we have means to stop a soul from bending to [Namiira](Lore_Namiira.md)'s sway. Moon-singers of the past had no such songs. Their partnership with the Hidden Moon was specifically in service of fighting [dro-m'Athra](Lore_Dro-m%27Athra.md), and their songs were many. Moon-singer songs could silence or entrap dark spirits. Some believe the purpose of their songs was to drown out the persistent rhythm of the [Bent Dance](Lore_Bent_Dance.md), or to compel the dark spirits of dro-m'Athra to forsake the path of Namiira. If the dro-m'Athra resisted, they were usually killed by hadaliit—meaning, sent back to the [Void](Lore_Void.md). From there, their souls might crawl forward to walk this plane again, or they might stray toward the clarity of Azurah's dawn. But they were never banished as we Twilight Cantors banished them, which sees the soul permanently destroyed.