# 36 Lessons of Vivec, Sermon 35

| Book Information | | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Seen In: | - [Morrowind](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Morrowind:36_Lessons_of_Vivec,_Sermon_35) <br> - [Elder Scrolls Online](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:The_36_Lessons:_Sermon_35) ([Morrowind](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Morrowind)) | | |
| Up | *[The Thirty-Six Lessons of Vivec](Lore_The_36_Lessons_of_Vivec.md)* | | |
| Prev. | *[Sermon Thirty-Four](Lore_36_Lessons_of_Vivec,_Sermon_34.md)* | Next | *[Sermon Thirty-Six](Lore_36_Lessons_of_Vivec,_Sermon_36.md)* |

[The Thirty-Six Lessons of Vivec](Lore_The_36_Lessons_of_Vivec.md), Sermon Thirty-Five **by [Vivec](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Vivec)** *Book 35 of a series of words of wisdom relating to Vivec*
---
The Scripture of Love:

- '[The formulas](Lore_Walking_Ways.md) of proper [Velothi](Lore_Veloth.md) magic continue in ancient tradition, but that virility is dead, by which I mean at least replaced. Truth owes its medicinal nature to the establishment of the myth of justice. Its curative properties it likewise owes to the concept of sacrifice. Princes, chiefs, and [angels](Lore_Angel.md) all subscribe to the same notion. This is a view primarily based on a prolific abolition of an implied profanity, seen in ceremonies, knife fighting, hunting, and the exploration of the poetic. On the ritual of occasions, which comes to us from the days of the cave glow, I can say nothing more than to loosen your equation of moods to lunar currency. Later, and by that I mean much, much later, my reign will be seen as an act of the highest love, which is a return from the astral destiny and the marriages between. By that I mean the catastrophes, which will come from all five corners. Subsequent are the revisions, differentiated between hope and the distraught, situations that are only required by [the periodic death of the immutable. Cosmic time is repeated](Lore_Kalpa.md): I wrote of this in an earlier life. An imitation of submersion is love's premonition, its folly into the underworld, by which I mean the day you will read about outside of yourself in an age of gold. For on that day, which is a shadow of the sacrificial concept, all history is obliged to see me for what you are: in love with evil. To keep one's powers intact at such a stage is to allow for the existence of what can only be called a continual spirit. Make of your love a defense against the horizon. Pure existence is only granted to the holy, which comes in a myriad of forms, half of them frightening and the other half divided into equal parts purposeless and assured. Late is the lover that comes to this by any other walking way than the fifth, which is the number of the limit of this world. The lover is the highest country and a series of beliefs. He is the sacred city bereft of a double. The uncultivated land of monsters is the rule. This is clearly attested by [ANU](Lore_Anu.md) and [his double](Lore_Padomay.md), which love knows never really happened. Similarly, all the other symbols of absolute reality are ancient ideas ready for their graves, or at least the essence of such. This scripture is directly ordered by the [codes](Lore_Codes_of_Mephala.md) of [Mephala](Lore_Mephala.md), the origin of sex and murder, defeated only by those who take up those ideas without my intervention. The religious elite is not a tendency or a correlation. They are dogma complemented by the influence of the untrustworthy sea and the governance of the stars, dominated at the center by the sword, which is nothing without a victim to cleave unto. This is the love of God and he would show you more: predatory but at the same time instrumental to the will of critical harvest, a scenario by which one becomes as he is, of male and female, the magic hermaphrodite. Mark the norms of violence and it barely registers, suspended as it is by [treaties written between](Lore_Convention.md) the [original spirits](Lore_Aedra.md). This should be seen as an opportunity, and in no way tedious, though some will give up for it is easier to kiss the lover than become one. The lower regions crawl with these souls, caves of shallow treasures, meeting in places to testify by way of extension, when love is only satisfied by a [considerable (incalculable) effort](Lore_Amaranth.md).'

The ending of the words is [ALMSIVI](Lore_Almsivi.md).