# Places A

[Overview](Lore_Places.md) | A [B](Lore_Places_B.md) [C](Lore_Places_C.md) [D](Lore_Places_D.md) [E](Lore_Places_E.md) [F](Lore_Places_F.md) [G](Lore_Places_G.md) [H](Lore_Places_H.md) [I](Lore_Places_I.md) [J](Lore_Places_J.md) [K](Lore_Places_K.md) [L](Lore_Places_L.md) [M](Lore_Places_M.md) [N](Lore_Places_N.md) [O](Lore_Places_O.md) [P](Lore_Places_P.md) [Q](Lore_Places_Q.md) [R](Lore_Places_R.md) [S](Lore_Places_S.md) [T](Lore_Places_T.md) [U](Lore_Places_U.md) [V](Lore_Places_V.md) [W](Lore_Places_W.md) [X](Lore_Places_X.md) [Y](Lore_Places_Y.md) [Z](Lore_Places_Z.md) | [Maps](Lore_Maps.md)
---

## Aalto
The [Aalto](Lore_Aalto.md) (or **Alto**), also known as the **Eastmarch Geysers**, is a geological formation that makes up the central area of [Eastmarch](Lore_Eastmarch.md), in the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). The volcanic tundra interior of Eastmarch is a no-man's-land of bubbling sulfur pools, giant camps, crests, slopes, and mines.<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-1)</sup><sup>[[2]](#cite_note-2)</sup> The entire Hold is dominated by sulfur pools where very little grows, as the volcanic terrain limits farming and development, and seems sunken in compared to the higher elevations of the Rift and the towering Throat of the World.

## Abagarlas
[Abagarlas](Lore_Abagarlas.md) (later **Lost Abagarlas**) was an [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) city located on the shores of [Lake Rumare](Lore_Lake_Rumare.md), on the northeast coast of [City Isle](Lore_City_Isle.md). A center of worship to the Daedric Prince of Domination [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md), Abagarlas infamously came into conflict with the nearby [Meridia](Lore_Meridia.md) -worshipping city of [Delodiil](Lore_Delodiil.md).

## Abah's Landing
[Abah's Landing](Lore_Abah%27s_Landing.md), the **Jewel of Khefrem**, is a harbor city on the eastern coast of [Hew's Bane](Lore_Hew%27s_Bane.md) in southern [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md). It is a major port on the [Abecean Sea](Lore_Abecean_Sea.md).

## Abamath
[Abamath](Lore_Abamath.md) (translated as *"Forbidden Home"* in [Ayleidoon](Lore_Ayleidoon.md)) is an [Ayleid ruin](Lore_Ayleid_Ruins.md) found on the [Xylo River](Lore_Xylo_River.md) in the region of [Malabal Tor](Lore_Malabal_Tor.md), in the province of [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md). It was initially an ancient town of [Wood Orcs](Lore_Wood_Orcs.md) that worshipped [Mauloch](Lore_Mauloch.md), the God of Curses. The cave system underneath it contains a spring of magical war paint called the Blood of Mauloch, which was believed to give them strength. Unfortunately for them, the [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) refugees of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) captured the town and built their city over it, until that eventually fell into disrepair.

## Abanabi Caves
The [Abanabi Caves](Lore_Abanabi_Caves.md) runs beneath [Zafirbel Bay](Lore_Zafirbel_Bay.md) in the [Azura's Coast](Lore_Azura%27s_Coast.md) region of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). A surface entrance to one section of the cave can be found southeast of the [Telvanni](Lore_House_Telvanni.md) city of [Sadrith Mora](Lore_Sadrith_Mora.md) and northeast of [Tel Fyr](Lore_Tel_Fyr.md). Another section of the cave could be accessed directly from Tel Fyr. Along with Abaelun Mine and Dun-Ahhe it is one of the few places in Vvardenfell where [diamonds](Lore_Diamond.md) occur.

## Abecean Sea
The [Abecean Sea](Lore_Abecean_Sea.md) (or the **Abecean** for short) is a body of water to the west of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) that sits between [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md), and [Summerset Isle](Lore_Summerset_Isle.md). The sea is encompassed by the [Eltheric Ocean](Lore_Eltheric_Ocean.md).

## Abernanit
[Abernanit](Lore_Abernanit.md) was a [Daedric Ruin](Lore_Daedric_Ruins.md) located in the [Bitter Coast](Lore_Bitter_Coast.md) region of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md). The site is notable for being mentioned in *[The Death Blow of Abernanit](Lore_Death_Blow_of_Abernanit.md)*.

## Abibon-Gora
[Abibon-Gora](Lore_Abibon-Gora.md) (also known as **Albion-Gora**) is a region that rests on the western coast of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), in the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md) region. It is a humid subtropical region with beaches and grasslands on its coastlines, and forests throughout its interior. It shared borders with [Kairou](Lore_Kairou.md) to the north and the [Alik'r Desert](Lore_Alik%27r.md) to the east when it was a barony in the Third Era. It is unknown how far south it goes, but the entire region from Abibon-Gora down to the peninsula of [Hegathe](Lore_Hegathe.md) is a lush plant-filled rainforest. [Redguards](Lore_Redguard.md) predominate the region, with [Julianos](Lore_Julianos.md) as the favorite deity. Sophists and mystics at his chapel engage in friendly debates during gatherings. The capital city is [the city of Abibon-gora](Lore_Abibon-Gora.md), and the locality is protected by the [Knights of the Wheel](Lore_Knights_of_the_Wheel.md).

## Abyss
The [Abyss](Lore_Abyss.md) is a mysterious realm of [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md) consisting of a never-ending series of rooms and corridors, both real and unreal at the same time, which together form an endless dungeon. Few have survived exploring the infinite reaches of the Abyss, and none have conquered it. It is said to be linked to the [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) [lich](Lore_Lich.md) king, [Celemaril Light-Bringer](Lore_Celemaril_Light-Bringer.md). However, Celemaril is not responsible for its creation.

## Adamantine Tower
The [Adamantine Tower](Lore_Adamantine_Tower.md), also known as the **Balfiera Tower**, **Direnni Tower**, **Ada-mantia**, **Adamant Tower**, **Ur-Tower**, **Ur-Dir**, and **Tower Zero**, is a tall, circular, and ancient tower at the highest point of the [Isle of Balfiera](Lore_Isle_of_Balfiera.md) in the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md). The [Tower](Lore_Towers.md) was used as a fortress, prison, and palace by the [Direnni Hegemony](Lore_Direnni_Hegemony.md), but its true purpose has remained a mystery. The latest magical divination of its age places its construction around [ME 2500](Lore_Merethic_Era.md#ME_2500), making it the oldest known structure in [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). The tower has been modified several times over the years, but the cylindrical core of metal has not been touched and is rumored to extend as far into the ground as it does protrude above it, and its depths have never been thoroughly explored. As with all Towers, the Adamantine Tower is said to exist beyond the physical and in some sense apart, or detached, from ordinary space and time.

## Adjacent Place
[Adjacent Places](Lore_Adjacent_Place.md) are realms within the [Aurbis](Lore_Aurbis.md) that are [accessible by magic](Lore_Magical_Transportation.md). Some sources say they exist as parallel reflections of the realms they are 'adjacent' of. Severe [magical](Lore_Magic.md) anomalies that disrupt the normal non-cardinal points can open breaches to Adjacent Places. Arch- [conjurer](Lore_Conjuration.md) [Corvus Direnni](Lore_Corvus_Direnni.md) wrote that he would temporarily lodge his [Flame Atronach Wolf](Lore_Flame_Atronach.md#Flame_Atronach_Wolf) in a pocket realm Adjacent Place.

Though some sources claim that there are multiple Adjacent Places, others point to one, unique **Adjacent Place**. The [Augur of the Obscure](Lore_Augur_of_the_Obscure.md) claims to have an alternate form in the Adjacent Place. The [Tribunal Temple](Lore_Tribunal_Temple.md)'s [teachings](Lore_The_36_Lessons_of_Vivec.md) tell of the Adjacent Place, describing it as a forbidden realm of apology for absolution and the illusion of the vocal. The teachings tell of a people known as [Grabbers](Lore_Grabber.md) who inhabited the Adjacent Place, having never built a city of their own. The Grabbers tried to conquer [Vivec City](Lore_Vivec_City.md) at some point by transforming the concept of Ha-Note into a monster named [City-Face](Lore_City-Face.md). The monster was stopped by the [god](Lore_Gods.md) [Vivec](Lore_Vivec_(god).md), who showed the Grabbers the error of their false hope.

## Aelfendor
[Aelfendor](Lore_Aelfendor.md) is a kingdom and castle featured in the epic tale *[Song of Hrormir](Lore_Song_of_Hrormir.md)*, which was originally governed by the Sovereignty of three Dark Kings who were under the thumb of the Daedric Prince [Nocturnal](Lore_Nocturnal.md).<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_nb1)</sup><sup>[[nb 2]](#intnote_nb2)</sup> In the poem the hero mage Hrormir ventures into a conflict against Aelfendor on behalf of King Vjindak Evensnow, in most part to track down his battle buddy Darfang the Blade, who has fell in with the three Dark Kings, and to turn him back back to the side of good. Hrormir discovers that the Dark Kings and Darfang were under the control of Nocturnal, and using tickeries Hrormir forces her into releasing his friend and himself from servitude.

## Aetherian Archive
The [Aetherian Archive](Lore_Aetherian_Archive.md) is a ruined tower in western [Craglorn](Lore_Craglorn.md), overlooking [Elinhir](Lore_Elinhir.md) to the south.

The tower was built by the Firstmages in ancient times and predates the nearby towers in Elinhir. According to local legend, the three towers at Elinhir were constructed in homage to the Archive. It served as the home of the [Firstmages](Lore_Firstmages.md), a group of [elven](Lore_Mer.md) mages completely dedicated to studying Aetherius and achieving magical power. The mages assembled a great library in order to study [magic](Lore_Magic.md) and [Aetherius](Lore_Aetherius.md), before casting impenetrable wards to eternally seal themselves inside. The mages found a magicka-infused anomaly called the Great Source in the Archive during the First Era. It was the source of their magic, and granted the Firstmages long lifespans. This allowed them to study indefinitely.

## Aetherius
[Aetherius](Lore_Aetherius.md) (known also as the **Immortal Plane**, the **Aether**, the **[Far Shores](Lore_Far_Shores.md)**, the **Spirit Worlds of Eternity**, and **Heaven**) is a [plane](Lore_Planes_of_Existence.md) of the [Aurbis](Lore_Aurbis.md) thought to be the origin of all [magic](Lore_Magic.md) and arcane arts. The [stars](Lore_Stars.md) and the [sun](Lore_Sun.md) are thought to be holes into Aetherius left by spirits (notably [Magnus](Lore_Magnus_(god).md)) who long ago became dissatisfied with [Mundus](Lore_Mundus.md). It is a common belief that the [soul](Lore_Souls.md) of a dead person, assuming they are not [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md) - [bound](Lore_Ghost.md) for some reason, goes to Aetherius, to continue on as a spirit, where it is said many souls of mortals become spirits of another sort. Materials known as [Aetherial Fragments](Lore_Aetherial_Fragments.md) often become dislodged and fall to [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md); these are commonly observed by the people of Tamriel as 'shooting stars'.

Aetherius, much like [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md), consists of a multitude of realms which serve different purposes and is described as a bright sea containing many worlds "of everlasting imperfection", and as a place of "searing light" that contrasts the darkness of Oblivion. It is described as an infinite place, or a deep, dark, and endless sea, beyond the past and the present and the known world, where time is irrelevant and from where the [gods](Lore_Gods.md) originated. The [realms](Lore_Planes_of_Existence.md) of Aetherius are said to move, to "dance and sway". It is said that in primordial times [Y'ffre](Lore_Y%27ffre.md) sang to Aetherius, weaving songs so beautiful that the stars were compelled to dance and sway, continuing to wink and blink afterward in memory of that song as the realms of Aetherius which those stars are windows to likewise dance and sway to Y'ffre's music. For [Nords](Lore_Nord.md), their chosen place in Aetherius is [Sovngarde](Lore_Sovngarde.md), the Hall of Valor. The [Redguards](Lore_Redguard.md) have a different place in Aetherius, called the [Far Shores](Lore_Far_Shores.md), as do the [Khajiit](Lore_Khajiit.md), a realm known as the [Sands Behind the Stars](Lore_Sands_Behind_the_Stars.md). These locations are not necessarily exclusive to those particular races, but may depend on an individual's beliefs, choices during their lifetime and the manner of their death, including the possibility of servitude to the [Daedra](Lore_Daedra.md) in Oblivion. For instance, in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582) King [Emeric](Lore_Emeric.md) of [Wayrest](Lore_Wayrest.md) was (temporarily) killed in the Chamber of Passage in the [Hall of Heroes](Lore_Hall_of_Heroes.md); his soul was drawn through a nearby passage to the Far Shores, despite his being a [Breton](Lore_Breton.md). Being worlds of the dead, certain [realms](Lore_Planes_of_Existence.md) of Aetherius like Sovngarde have been described as places where the living shouldn't linger.

## Ahemmusa Camp
The [Ahemmusa Camp](Lore_Ahemmusa_Camp.md) is the home of the Ahemmusa Tribe, one of the four distinct tribes of [Ashlanders](Lore_Ashlanders.md) in [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md). The Ahemmusa Camp is commonly found in the northeast coast of Vvardenfell, in the region of the [Grazelands](Lore_Grazelands.md), but because of territorial expansion between [House Redoran](Lore_House_Redoran.md) and [House Telvanni](Lore_House_Telvanni.md), they migrated to the [Bitter Coast](Lore_Bitter_Coast.md) in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582).<sup>[[3]](#cite_note-Customs-3)</sup> They returned to that area, living there as far as [3E 427](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_427), until the Ahemmusa Tribe were forced to relocate to the ruins of [Ald Daedroth](Lore_Ald_Daedroth.md), where they most likely have stayed ever since.<sup>[[4]](#cite_note-4)</sup>

## Ain-Kolur
[Ain-Kolur](Lore_Ain-Kolur.md) was a battlefield where the Battle of Ain-Kolur took place. During this battle one of the most renowned [River Horse](Lore_River_Horse_Bretons.md) [Bretons](Lore_Breton.md) Mindothrax, who was a master of defensive combat perished against a rival tribe led by Chief Iymbez, who brought in reinforcements from the islands to the south. A camp of Mindothrax's tribe was positioned in a high-walled garden of an old burial ground, adorned by springtide blossoms.

## Akatosh (planet)
The planet [Akatosh](Lore_Akatosh_(planet).md), sometimes called **AKHAT**, is one of the Dominion Planets found in the skies of [Mundus](Lore_Mundus.md). According to the Warrior-Poet, [Vivec](Lore_Vivec.md), it is one of the eight worlds known to the [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md). There are no known satellites orbiting around it, but it marks the eye of the [Warrior](Lore_The_Warrior_(constellation).md) [constellation](Lore_Constellations.md). As with all astral bodies seen in the skies above [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md) and their corresponding deities, the planet Akatosh is believed to be the plane of the god Akatosh as well as the god himself, as seen from the mortal plane. It is said to actually be a different [plane of existence](Lore_Planes_of_Existence.md) in its own right, infinite in size and mass, with its appearance as a sphere being only a visual phenomenon caused by mortal mental stress. [Akatosh](Lore_Akatosh.md) is said to have ruled from here before [Convention](Lore_Convention.md) took place in [ME 2500](Lore_Merethic_Era.md#ME_2500).

## Akavir
[Akavir](Lore_Akavir.md), also known as **Dragon Land**, is a continental landmass east of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md), and home to the [Akaviri](Lore_Akaviri.md) races. The two continents have a history of animosity towards each other, with Akavir invading Tamriel several times in the past and [Tamriel invading Akavir](Lore_Invasion_of_Akavir.md) at least once. Much of what is known about it in Tamriel is acknowledged to be incomplete or inaccurate.

## Akgun
[Akgun](Lore_Akgun.md) is a potentially fictional location mentioned in *[The Ransom of Zarek](Lore_The_Ransom_of_Zarek.md)*.<sup>[[5]](#cite_note-ATOTD-5)</sup>

## Akos Kasaz
[Akos Kasaz](Lore_Akos_Kasaz.md) is the largest island in the [Yokudan](Lore_Yokuda.md) archipelago, between the [Azurian Sea](Lore_Azurian_Sea.md) and the [Sea of Pearls](Lore_Sea_of_Pearls.md), far to the west of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md). Due to its size, the island spans multiple environments, some gentle and some brutal. The capital of the Yokudans, [Old Totambu](Lore_Totambu.md#Notes), was located on Akos Kasaz. In the late [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), other settlements included Tagon in the west, Taleskan in the north, and Yul in the south.

As the home of the Na-Totambu, the old ruling class (which would later become the [Crowns](Lore_Crowns.md)), the Yousebh the Stringent, the Red [Dervish](Lore_Dervishes.md) of [Rihad](Lore_Rihad.md) was famously quoted for the phrase *"A daughter of the House of Akos Kasaz shall not marry an infidel of another house."* What this means is that a daughter of the Crowns shall not marry another Redguard that drifted away from the Yokudan customs, like the [Forebears](Lore_Forebears.md). Northern Akos Kasaz was a fertile steppe, home to large herding clans, some of whom worshipped the [Herd Mother](Lore_Herd_Mother.md), rather than the typical Yokudan gods. This group, known as the [Horsemen](Lore_Silverhoof_Horsemen.md), left Yokuda in the sixth century of the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md), eventually founding a colony in the Vale of Silverhoof in [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md).

## Alabaster
[Alabaster](Lore_Alabaster.md) (alternatively known as **Al'basti** in [Ta'agra](Lore_Ta%27agra.md)) is one of the eight major cities in the province of [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md), found on the southeastern coast of the province on the [Topal Bay](Lore_Topal_Bay.md).

The town is known for the great white walls that surround the city, hence the name. Alabaster was one of the original sixteen kingdoms of Elsweyr, known for their bards, playwrights, poets, and spices. A small unnamed town is located outside the city walls, to the west.

## Alavelis
[Alavelis](Lore_Alavelis.md) is a village on the southernmost end of the [Padomaic Crest](Lore_Padomaic_Crest.md) and is located in the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md), in the jurisdiction of the Great [House Dres](Lore_House_Dres.md). Alavelis is a sleepy town known mainly for its [glass](Lore_Malachite.md) mine to the east of it, though it eventually ran dry. The settlement is overseen by a group of village elders. When the [Third Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md) took over and constructed maps of the province, they gave the village an Imperalized name: **Amber Forest**.

## Alcaire
[Alcaire](Lore_Alcaire.md) is a region on the south-central coast of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md), on the north shore of [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md). Alcaire borders [Koegria](Lore_Koegria.md) to the west, the [Wrothgarian Mountains](Lore_Wrothgarian_Mountains.md) to the north, and [Menevia](Lore_Menevia_(county).md) to the east. The largest city in the region is the city of Alcaire. The regional deity is [Kynareth](Lore_Kynareth.md). The dominant vampire bloodline in Alcaire is the [Lyrezi](Lore_Lyrezi.md).

Before [3E 405](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_405), an eponymous polity ruled the area but following the Warp in the West, the region became a part of the kingdom of [Wayrest](Lore_Wayrest_(kingdom).md).

The climate of Alcaire is described as pleasantly mild and dry, with farmers and fishing villages depending upon the favorable weather and bountiful harvests.

## Alcaire (city)
[Alcaire](Lore_Alcaire_(city).md) is a city located in central [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md) and it is the capital of the eponymous [fiefdom](Lore_Alcaire.md) in the north-central [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md). By the mid- [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), it was known as **Alcaire Castle**, a castle-town built on the highest point in the region, near the road to [Rivenspire](Lore_Rivenspire.md). At the time, it was also the home of the [Knights of the Flame](Lore_Knights_of_the_Flame.md), who swore fealty to the monarchy. Fables at the time told that a [future ruler](Lore_Tiber_Septim.md) would be born from within its ramparts.

## Ald Daedroth
[Ald Daedroth](Lore_Ald_Daedroth.md) (sometimes spelled **Ald Daedrothi**), and meaning **Old Daedroth** in [Dark Elvish](Lore_Dark_Elvish.md)) is a [Daedric ruin](Lore_Daedric_Ruins.md) located on an island north of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md) and west of [Sheogorad Island](Lore_Sheogorad.md), in the [Azura's Coast](Lore_Azura%27s_Coast.md) region.

The ruins were once an ancient site of [Daedric](Lore_Daedra.md) worship, containing statues dedicated to [Azura](Lore_Azura.md), [Malacath](Lore_Malacath.md), [Mehrunes Dagon](Lore_Mehrunes_Dagon.md), [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md), and [Sheogorath](Lore_Sheogorath.md). Like many of the Daedric ruins of Vvardenfell, they were sealed off by the [Ordinators](Lore_Ordinators.md) of the [Tribunal Temple](Lore_Tribunal_Temple.md) to prevent worship of the Daedra Lords. The Temple occasionally made pilgrimages to Sheogorath's shrine. In hard times, the nomadic [Ahemmusa](Lore_Ahemmusa_Tribe.md) [Ashlanders](Lore_Ashlanders.md) of the northern [Grazelands](Lore_Grazelands.md) would take shelter in the ruins.

## Ald Marak
[Ald Marak](Lore_Ald_Marak.md) (also called **Ald Malak**) is a strategic fortress found on the shores of Lake Coronati, alongside its sister city, Ald Iuval. It is found in the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). Ald Marak is known to contain high sturdy walls, and deep waters from the Coronati, making it impossible to assault on foot en masse.

## Ald Redaynia
[Ald Redaynia](Lore_Ald_Redaynia.md) is an isolated Velothi tower found on the northern islands of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md), known as [Sheogorad](Lore_Sheogorad.md). It is within the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). Despite having little significance on the surface, Ald Redaynia is a historical settlement, dating back as far as the [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md), and once containing a small remote fishing village as far as [3E 427](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_427).

## Ald Sotha
[Ald Sotha](Lore_Ald_Sotha.md) (meaning "Old Sotha" in Dark Elvish) was an ancient, ruined settlement located northeast of [Vivec City](Lore_Vivec_City.md), in the [Ascadian Isles](Lore_Ascadian_Isles.md) region of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md). In the time of [Resdayn](Lore_Resdayn.md), prior to the formation of the [Inner Sea](Lore_Inner_Sea.md), Ald Sotha was originally a town with many towers that was home to [House Sotha](Lore_House_Sotha.md). It was later destroyed by [Mehrunes Dagon](Lore_Mehrunes_Dagon.md), with [Vivec](Lore_Vivec.md) saving [Sotha Sil](Lore_Sotha_Sil.md) from Dagon's armies, leaving him as its only survivor. By the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), Ald Sotha had become a temple to Mehrunes Dagon, though it was visited by members of the [Tribunal Temple](Lore_Tribunal_Temple.md) during the Pilgrimages of the Four Corners.

## Ald Velothi
[Ald Velothi](Lore_Ald_Velothi.md) ([Dark Elvish](Lore_Dark_Elvish.md) for *"Old Velothi"*) was a small harbor settlement on the north coast of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md), in the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). A dock has existed there for many years and is historically owned by [House Redoran](Lore_House_Redoran.md). It is likely named after [Veloth the Pilgrim](Lore_Veloth.md), the village's patron [saint](Lore_Temple_Saints.md). In the mid- [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), it was the site of the **Ald Velothi Harbor House**, a medium-sized private estate with a small dock, but in the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), it was a fishing village that contained an outpost.

## Ald'ruhn
[Ald'ruhn](Lore_Ald%27ruhn.md) ([Dark Elvish](Lore_Dark_Elvish.md) for *"Old Home"* and also spelled **Ald-ruhn**) was one of the four cities on the district of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md). In modern history, Ald'ruhn served as the district seat of power for the Great [House Redoran](Lore_House_Redoran.md), but before it was occupied by the House [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md), it was neutral meeting ground for the four tribes of the Vvardenfell [Ashlanders](Lore_Ashlanders.md). The settlement was built around the carcass of [Skar](Lore_Skar.md), an ancient [Emperor Crab](Lore_Emperor_Crab.md) that was slain by the united tribes and a long-forgotten hero of legend. The [Third Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md) maintained the Buckmoth Legion Fort on the south end of the city, and occasionally Imperialized the city's name as **Old Run**.

## Aldcroft
[Aldcroft](Lore_Aldcroft.md) is a port town in western [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md), located on the eastern shores of [Glenumbra](Lore_Glenumbra.md), in the region of [Cambray Hills](Lore_Cambray_Hills.md). The town is surrounded by swamps and often shrouded in mist. Thanks to its location, it has become a key port that services the city of [Camlorn](Lore_Camlorn.md) from trade routes along the Iliac Bay. It is also known for its spicy stews.

## Aldmeris
[Aldmeris](Lore_Aldmeris.md), also known as the **Isle of Aldmeris**, the **Island of Start**, **Lost Aldmeris**, **Old Aldmeris**, and **Old [Ehlnofey](Lore_Ehlnofey.md)**, is the mythical lost continent from which the [Mer](Lore_Mer.md) are said to have originated. The term Aldmeris also refers to the [language](Lore_Ehlnofex_Languages.md) spoken by the [Aldmer](Lore_Aldmer.md).

Virtually nothing is known of the elven homeland. Its location, its environment, its politics, its religion, and even its existence are the stuff of conjecture. By some accounts, Aldmeris may have been located somewhere in the South [Eltheric Ocean](Lore_Eltheric_Ocean.md). According to Altmeri epic poetry, when the [Ancients](Lore_Ancients.md) sailed to the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md) and landed at the northern tip of [Auridon](Lore_Auridon.md), they lost the means to navigate back to Aldmeris, but had reason to believe their homeland lay in one of three different directions: south, northwest, or [northeast](Lore_Tamriel.md).

## Aleswell
[Aleswell](Lore_Aleswell.md) is a settlement located north of the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md) along the [Red Ring Road](Lore_Red_Ring_Road.md), in the [Heartlands](Lore_Heartlands.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md).

## Alftand
[Alftand](Lore_Alftand.md) is a [Dwemer ruin](Lore_Dwemer_Ruins.md) located within the [Winterhold](Lore_Winterhold_(region).md) region of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). Alftand is unique among Dwemer ruins in that it is the only one built partially atop an [active glacier](Lore_Ice_Fields.md). In addition to its unique location, the [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md) of Alftand had their own unique style of iconography. The Great Lift at Alftand, which leads into [Blackreach](Lore_Blackreach.md), can be found in [the Pale](Lore_The_Pale.md), overlooking the main road and [Lake Yorgrim](Lore_Lake_Yorgrim.md). According to [Septimus Signus](Lore_Septimus_Signus.md), Alftand is "The point of puncture, of first entry, of the tapping."

## Alik'r
The [Alik'r](Lore_Alik%27r.md) (best known as the **Alik'r Desert**) is a large region that takes a significant portion of [Hammerfell Province](Lore_Hammerfell.md). It is a vast sea of sand and dunes, stretching across the inner province, surrounded by the mountains in eastern Hammerfell, and the grassland along the coastline. Borders between Hammerfell's nations in the Alik'r Desert are hazy. Travelers in the desert can never tell where they start or end. When Alik'r Desert was an independent state of Hammerfell Province, its capital city was [Alik'ra](Lore_Alik%27ra.md).

## Alik'ra
[Alik'ra](Lore_Alik%27ra.md) is a walled city in the unconquered [Alik'r Desert](Lore_Alik%27r_Desert.md) region and was its capital in the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md). It is located just north of [Bergama](Lore_Bergama_(barony).md), where the narrow strip of land begins to the west between [Antiphyllos](Lore_Antiphyllos.md) and [Sentinel](Lore_Sentinel_(kingdom).md) to the north, and Bergama to the south. Despite its importance in the area, no ruler claims it.

## Alinor (city)
[Alinor](Lore_Alinor_(city).md) is one of the eight major cities in the province of the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md), found on the river highlands of the Oleander Coast. Alinor is the ancient capital of the Summerset Isles and the seat of [High Elven](Lore_Altmer.md) civilization. It is widely recognized by its sky-piercing towers and intricately woven ramparts that are designed to catch the light of the sun to break it into a variety of colors. For thousands of years, it has been the home of the High Kingship of Summerset, who sits at the highest point of the city and surveys across their grand domain. The city is the namesake of the province's modern-day name, chosen by the [Thalmor](Lore_Thalmor.md) as they assumed power over the country.

## Alten Corimont
[Alten Corimont](Lore_Alten_Corimont.md) is a small port town located in eastern [Shadowfen](Lore_Shadowfen.md), deep in the province of [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md). It lies on the bank of a waterway, which provides access to the sea.

## Alten Meerhleel
[Alten Meerhleel](Lore_Alten_Meerhleel.md) (also called **Alten Meirhall**) is a port settlement built on the lowlands of [Murkmire](Lore_Murkmire.md), in the province of [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md). The port was built as a way for the [Argonian](Lore_Argonian.md) tribes to connect with the other races and as a way to appease them, the original harbormaster built a [Teeba-Enoo](Lore_Teeba-Enoo.md) court north of the docks.

## Lake Amaya (Deshaan)
[Lake Amaya](Lore_Lake_Amaya_(Deshaan).md) (also called **Lake Thir**) is a large lake in the center of the [Deshaan](Lore_Deshaan.md) region of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). It surrounds the city of [Mournhold](Lore_Mournhold.md) and meets the docks of [Shad Astula](Lore_Shad_Astula.md). It is fed by the [Thir River](Lore_Thir_River.md), a large waterway that runs through the province. Local [Ashlander](Lore_Ashlander.md) tribes use the waters of the lake for primitive irrigation, allowing the fertile black soil of the Lake Amaya basin to sustain both plants and animals.

## Lake Amaya (Vvardenfell)
[Lake Amaya](Lore_Lake_Amaya_(Vvardenfell).md) is a large body of water found in the temperate lowlands of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md), in the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). Situated on the northern crown of the [Ascadian Isles](Lore_Ascadian_Isles.md), it is found deep in the countryside from roaring cities like [Vivec](Lore_Vivec_(city).md) and villages like [Pelagiad](Lore_Pelagiad.md) and [Suran](Lore_Suran.md). Throughout the shores are small private estates and farmhouses, often owned by nobles of [House Hlaalu](Lore_House_Hlaalu.md). The northern shores contain the Fields of Kummu, the idyllic site of the Shrine of Humility, one of the Shrines of the Seven Graces which pilgrims of the [Tribunal Temple](Lore_Tribunal_Temple.md) often visited.

## Amber Guard
[Amber Guard](Lore_Amber_Guard.md) was a village located in western [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), southwest of [Snowhawk](Lore_Snowhawk.md). It had road connections to [Karthwasten Hall](Lore_Karthwasten_Hall.md) and Lainalten.

## Amenos
[Amenos](Lore_Amenos.md) is the second-largest island in the [Systres Archipelago](Lore_Systres_Archipelago.md), an island region in the western part of the [Abecean Sea](Lore_Abecean_Sea.md). The island is characterized by a dense, hostile jungle and a hazardous coastline riddled with jagged rocks, unrelenting storms, and dangerous currents. Historically, Amenos has been governed by the [Bretons](Lore_Breton.md) of [House Mornard](Lore_House_Mornard.md) and it has hosted a prison facility since the early years of the [Common Era](Lore_Common_Era.md).

## Amenos Passage
The [Amenos Passage](Lore_Amenos_Passage.md) is a body of water nestled between the four major islands of the [Systres](Lore_Systres.md): [Amenos](Lore_Amenos.md), [Galen](Lore_Galen.md), [High Isle](Lore_High_Isle.md), and [Y'ffelon](Lore_Y%27ffelon.md). It is part of the [Eltheric Ocean](Lore_Eltheric_Ocean.md) and bordered by the [Abecean Sea](Lore_Abecean_Sea.md).

Several islands, such as [Fogbreak Lighthouse Island](Lore_Fogbreak_Lighthouse_Island.md) and [Whalefall](Lore_Whalefall.md) are located within the Passage. Both on and below these islands, exotic [coral](Lore_Coral.md) may be found within the Passage due to the archipelago's close proximity to [Summerset](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md).

## Amiglith
A settlement in the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md). A sculpture that represents the Transformation of [Trinimac](Lore_Trinimac.md) can be found there.<sup>[[6]](#cite_note-CKL-6)</sup>

## Ancestor Glade
[Ancestor Glades](Lore_Ancestor_Glade.md) are secluded places scattered across [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). [Canticle Trees](Lore_Canticle_Tree.md), which attract [Ancestor Moths](Lore_Ancestor_Moth.md), are known to grow in Ancestor Glades. Due to the presence of Ancestor Moths and the Canticle Tree sap's magical properties, the [Ritual of the Ancestor Moth](Lore_Ritual_of_the_Ancestor_Moth.md) is typically performed by the Moth Priests of the [Cult of the Ancestor Moth](Lore_Cult_of_the_Ancestor_Moth.md) at these locations.

Canticle trees that grow in the glades are unpredictable in their growth. The conditions required for them to take root differ from one location to another. However, according to tales from the Cult of the Ancestor Moth, these trees have been known to thrive in environments ranging from loose sand to frozen soil. The elders of the Cult of the Ancestor Moth claim that, once a Canticle Tree had had its first bloom, it becomes almost impossible to kill. Even without tenders, moths, sunlight, or water, the trees just go dormant, hiding away inside themselves and shedding their petals to appear dead when, in actuality, they're not. There are tales of Canticle Trees that were withered down to a stump under a collapsed structure and denied water and sunlight for centuries being fully restored after proper tending.

One of the known Ancestor Glades was found in the region of [Pine Forest](Lore_Pine_Forest.md), high in the [Jerall Mountains](Lore_Jerall_Mountains.md) within the [Falkreath Hold](Lore_Falkreath_Hold.md). It was located southeast of [Falkreath's capital](Lore_Falkreath.md), and was the only Ancestor Glade in the entire province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md).

## Ancient Libraries of Tholgamis
The ancient libraries of Tholgamis are an obscure location, which once held secret to locating where Kynareth's crypt physically manifested at that time during the Imperial Simulacrum.<sup>[[7]](#cite_note-Tholgamis-7)</sup>

## Andasreth
[Andasreth](Lore_Andasreth.md) is an ancient stronghold in the [West Gash](Lore_West_Gash.md) region of Vvardenfell, just north of [Khartag Point](Lore_Khartag_Point.md).

It is one of the ancient strongholds from a brighter time in [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) h History. It can be found north of [Gnaar Mok](Lore_Gnaar_Mok.md), just over the mountains north of Khartag Point. The stronghold has largely been abandoned for some time; in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), it was the campsite for a tribe of [Red Exiles](Lore_Red_Exiles.md), and in [3E 427](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_427) it has been taken over by bandits.

Alongside other nine Dunmeri strongholds Berandas, Falasmaryon, Falensarano, Hlormaren, [Indoranyon](Lore_Indoranyon.md), Marandus, [Rotheran](Lore_Rotheran.md), Telasero, and Valenvaryon, it was connected to the [magical transportation](Lore_Magical_Transportation.md) network of Propylon Chambers.

## Anequina
[Anequina](Lore_Anequina.md) ([Ta'agra](Lore_Ta%27agra.md): *Ne Quin-al*), also known as **Anaquina**, **Ana'quinal**, or **Northern Elsweyr**, is a historical region and former [Khajiiti](Lore_Khajiit.md) kingdom in southern [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). It is one of the two traditional regions of [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md), along with its southern neighbor, [Pellitine](Lore_Pellitine.md). Anequina traces its history back to [Anequina Sharp-Tongue](Lore_Anequina_Sharp-Tongue.md), who served as the queen of the Ne Quin-al Prides in the time of the sixteen kingdoms. It emerged as one of the largest kingdoms in the province following the [Anequine Conquests](Lore_Anequine_Conquests.md). It merged with the rival kingdom of [Pellitine](Lore_Pellitine.md) in [2E 309](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_309) to form the [Elsweyr Confederacy](Lore_Elsweyr_Confederacy.md), uniting the region for the first time. Anequina occupies the northern half of Elsweyr, a region of harsh badlands and arid plains. </noinclude>

## Anga
[Anga](Lore_Anga.md) (meaning *Iron* or *Cold* in [Ayleidoon](Lore_Ayleidoon.md)) is an [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleids.md) [ruin](Lore_Ayleid_Ruins.md) located in the Anga Valley, a region of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md)'s [Great Forest](Lore_Great_Forest.md) found north of the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md), just off the [Silver Road](Lore_Silver_Road.md) to [Bruma](Lore_Bruma.md).

Little is known of Anga's history. Circa [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582) an Ayleid researcher named Brelynd Verano attempted to access Anga's interior, but the ruins had been sealed.

At some point, a cult of [Namira](Lore_Namira.md) worshippers known as the Forgotten sealed themselves within the ruins to live out their lives in squalor and darkness. Circa [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433), priests of [Arkay](Lore_Arkay.md) invaded the ruins bearing torches to "cleanse" the darkness within and save the souls of the Forgotten. Having spent so many years living in total darkness, the light burned the Forgotten, leaving them helpless. In response, Namira tasked the [Hero of Kvatch](Lore_Hero_of_Kvatch.md) with entering Anga and casting a spell on the priests, extinguishing their torches and allowing the Forgotten to kill them. In addition to the living occupants, a secret chamber within the ruins was also haunted by the undead at this time.

## Annihilarch's Summit
[Annihilarch's Summit](Lore_Annihilarch%27s_Summit.md) is a high peak in the Sever, a storm-ravaged region of the [Deadlands](Lore_Deadlands.md), [Mehrunes Dagon](Lore_Mehrunes_Dagon.md)'s plane of [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md). The peak is inhospitable to mortals and [Daedra](Lore_Daedra.md) alike due to the constant lightning and wind shear. A single path leads from the base, passing through cave tunnels to reach the summit. However, the way is blocked by a wind-gate, and mortals are unlikely to survive the ascent without magical protection due to the violent weather that batters the peak.

## Anticlere
[Anticlere](Lore_Anticlere.md) (formerly known as **Reich Gradkeep**) is a historical country in southwestern [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md), right on the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md) region. Beyond the three original kingdoms in the region, Anticlere is one of the primary powers in the Iliac Bay. The region, as well as southern High Rock is known for its rolling, verdant hills. The Goddess of Love and Fertility, [Mara](Lore_Mara.md) is considered the goddess-protector of Anticlere and by the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), the [Knights of the Flame](Lore_Knights_of_the_Flame.md) served as the region's [knightly order](Lore_Breton_Knightly_Orders.md) and protector of the royal family.

## Anticlere (city)
[Anticlere](Lore_Anticlere_(city).md) (formerly known as **Reich Gradkeep**) is the capital of the eponymous [region](Lore_Anticlere.md) in the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md) region of southern [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md). The town received its modern name from Lord [Auberon Flyte](Lore_Auberon_Flyte.md), who renamed it in honor of his family, the ancestral house of Anticlere.

## Antiphyllos
[Antiphyllos](Lore_Antiphyllos.md) is a region in northern [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md) and is part of the greater [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md) area. The region's monarchy was once connected to the [Phyllocid Dynasty](Lore_Phyllocid_Dynasty.md), the [Crowns](Lore_Crowns.md) family that ruled the province during its time under the [Second Empire](Lore_Second_Empire.md). Some of their last known descendants were Grandee [Zizzeen](Lore_Zizzeen.md) of Antiphyllos and his relative, High King [Fahara'jad](Lore_Fahara%27jad.md) of [Sentinel](Lore_Sentinel_(kingdom).md). The local [Redguards](Lore_Redguard.md) of the region have the utmost respect for [Divad Hunding](Lore_Divad_Hunding.md), one of the great [sword-singers](Lore_Sword-singers.md) of Redguard history. They observe the holiday, [Divad Etep't](Lore_Divad_Etep%27t.md) on the 12th of [Sun's Height](Lore_Sun%27s_Height.md), which is a day of mourning dedicated to the warrior. The [Anthotis](Lore_Anthotis.md) clan of [vampires](Lore_Vampire.md) and the [Dust Witches](Lore_Witches.md) are active in the region.

## Anudnabia
[Anudnabia](Lore_Anudnabia.md) is a [daedric ruin](Lore_Daedric_Ruins.md) located on the largest off-coast island east of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md), in the province of [Morrowind](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Morrowind:Morrowind). The ruins are located on the same island as the city of [Sadrith Mora](Lore_Sadrith_Mora.md), which is directly west of it. Back in its heyday, it was a city dedicated to the [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Prince.md) [Hermaeus Mora](Lore_Hermaeus_Mora.md). It was once occupied by the duo, [Dorach Gusal](Lore_Dorach_Gusal.md), the enchanter and [Hilbongard Rolamus](Lore_Hilbongard_Rolamus.md) of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), the great [weaponsmith](Lore_Smithing.md). With the magical forge deep in the ruins, they created the legendary warhammer, [Skull Crusher](Lore_Skull_Crusher.md).

## Anutwyll
[Anutwyll](Lore_Anutwyll.md) is an [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) [ruin](Lore_Ayleid_Ruins.md) located on the western shore of the [Niben Bay](Lore_Niben_Bay.md) at the mouth of the [Larsius River](Lore_Larsius_River.md), just north of [Bravil](Lore_Bravil.md). It roughly translates to *[Anu](Lore_Anu.md)'s Well* in [Ayleidoon](Lore_Ayleidoon.md).

## Anvil
[Anvil](Lore_Anvil.md) is a prosperous Colovian harbor city on the [Gold Coast](Lore_Gold_Coast.md) by the [Abecean Sea](Lore_Abecean_Sea.md) at the very southwest end of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). It is the seat of County Anvil and it is located at the end of the [Gold Road](Lore_Gold_Road.md), west of [Skingrad](Lore_Skingrad.md) and [Kvatch](Lore_Kvatch.md).

Anvil consists of five districts: Castle Anvil, Chapelgate, Westgate, Guildgate and Harborside. The Redguards have had a notable influence on local architecture, which is of a similar style to that of nearby [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md). The city's graveyard is located across the street from the Chapel of Dibella. North of the graveyard lies Benirus Manor, one of Anvil's many stately manors. The city also houses chapters of the [Fighters Guild](Lore_Fighters_Guild.md) and [Mages Guild](Lore_Mages_Guild.md), the latter of which specializes in [Restoration](Lore_Restoration.md).

## Anvil Castle
[Anvil Castle](Lore_Anvil_Castle.md) (also called **Anvil Keep** or **Castle Anvil**) is a large stone castle found across the bay facing the southern walls of the city of Anvil. When [King Bendu Olo](Lore_Bendu_Olo.md) led the [All Flags Navy](Lore_All_Flags_Navy.md) against the [Sload](Lore_Sload.md) of [Thras](Lore_Thras.md) in [1E 2200](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_2200), he returned to the city and began converting what was then known as **Anvil Fortress** into Anvil Castle.

## Aphren's Hold
[Aphren's Hold](Lore_Aphren%27s_Hold.md) (formerly known as **Wind Keep**, and later **Windkeep Castle**) is a ruined stronghold that dates back sometime in the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md). As the name implies, it is named after the Merchant-King of [Wayrest](Lore_Wayrest_(kingdom).md), [Aphren Gardner](Lore_Aphren_Gardner.md), whose reign was infamous for his desire to expand his dominion by conquering his neighbors. The fort formerly known as Wind Keep became his headquarters, thus taking on his name, but it was ransacked and is now rife with spirits. A nearby [town](Lore_Wind_Keep.md) retains the original name, and the underground complex of **[Storm Talon Temple](Lore_Storm_Talon_Temple.md)** has at times been actively run by [the Blades](Lore_Blades.md) from beneath the ruins.

## Apocrypha
[Apocrypha](Lore_Apocrypha.md) is a realm of [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md) created and ruled over by [Hermaeus Mora](Lore_Hermaeus_Mora.md), the [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Princes.md) of Knowledge and [Fate](Lore_Fate.md). The geography of the realm varies, with some areas being open with fields containing odd flora, other areas are an endless library consisting of untitled books with black covers, where all forbidden knowledge can be found, and the crackling towers of learning mingle with archways of despair and confusion. The realm is haunted by the ghosts of mortals forever searching for knowledge. Stacks of books form mazes and spiraling pillars that can reach as high as the illuminating green sky. Intricate ruins and monstrous carvings can be found among the stacks. The plane is covered in a sea of ink and roiling tentacles, while Hermaeus Mora is omnipresent over all, taking glee in tormenting mortals from his realm. Some areas of the realm are consumed by darkness which can kill any who enter it. Discarded pages and floating tomes fill the fetid air, as if pulled by invisible string. Storms of notorious strength purportedly rage over Apocrypha.

Apart from magical teleportation, Apocrypha is most easily entered by mortals through the reading of [Black Books](Lore_Black_Books.md), tomes of forbidden knowledge displaced from time and scattered across [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). An apparition of the reader's body remains in [Mundus](Lore_Mundus.md), tethering their life force. Most mortals who gain access to the secrets within Apocrypha are driven insane by unending revelations. Such was the fate of the mage [Morian Zenas](Lore_Morian_Zenas.md), who famously disappeared in Apocrypha during his voyages through Oblivion. However, those who successfully journey through Apocrypha are known to discover powerful knowledge. The laws of the mortal world hold no power in this realm.

## Applewatch
[Applewatch](Lore_Applewatch.md) is a small settlement located in the [Jerall Mountains](Lore_Jerall_Mountains.md) west of [Bruma](Lore_Bruma.md). It was the ancestral home of the Draconis family, and is the namesake of the Applewatch Wood region.

## Aphren's Hold
[Aphren's Hold](Lore_Aphren%27s_Hold.md) (formerly known as **Wind Keep**, and later **Windkeep Castle**) is a ruined stronghold that dates back sometime in the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md). As the name implies, it is named after the Merchant-King of [Wayrest](Lore_Wayrest_(kingdom).md), [Aphren Gardner](Lore_Aphren_Gardner.md), whose reign was infamous for his desire to expand his dominion by conquering his neighbors. The fort formerly known as Wind Keep became his headquarters, thus taking on his name, but it was ransacked and is now rife with spirits. A nearby [town](Lore_Wind_Keep.md) retains the original name, and the underground complex of **[Storm Talon Temple](Lore_Storm_Talon_Temple.md)** has at times been actively run by [the Blades](Lore_Blades.md) from beneath the ruins.

## Arcane University
The [Arcane University](Lore_Arcane_University.md) is a walled complex located on [City Isle](Lore_City_Isle.md) in [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). It is a district of the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md), and is connected by bridge to the Arboretum District. It was founded in the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md) and replaced the [Crystal Tower](Lore_Crystal_Tower.md) of [Summerset Isle](Lore_Summerset_Isle.md) as the center of magical learning in [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md).

Originally an old [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) district adjacent to the Imperial City, the complex was rebuilt as the headquarters of the [Mages Guild](Lore_Mages_Guild.md) after the guild's founding in the early Second Era. The Arcane University served as the seat of the Council of Mages and was Tamriel's foremost magical research center, home to many powerful guild mages, scholars, and apprentices.

## Archon
[Archon](Lore_Archon.md) is one of the eight major cities in the province of [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md), situated on the eastern coast on the [Padomaic Ocean](Lore_Padomaic_Ocean.md). The area is historically considered to be in the realm of the [Lilmothiit](Lore_Lilmothiit.md) and [Cantemiric Velothi](Lore_Cantemiric_Velothi.md).

## Archon's Grove
[Archon's Grove](Lore_Archon%27s_Grove.md) is a forested clearing found in the southern mountains of [Summerset Isle](Lore_Summerset_Isle.md), in the province of the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md). The area is known for its sacred flower of [Mara](Lore_Mara.md), the [Rose-of-Archon](Lore_Rose-of-Archon.md), which epitomizes the true essence of beauty itself. It has since been harvested by the [College of Sapiarchs](Lore_College_of_Sapiarchs.md) for the fifty-eighth Day of Divine Reverence to the Goddess of Love. The beeswax from the forest is praised as some of the finest wax across the continent. The town of **Archen Grangrove** existed in the area in the Third Era.

## Arcwind Point
[Arcwind Point](Lore_Arcwind_Point.md) is a ruined [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) structure located at the southern edge of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), in an isolated valley in the [Jerall Mountains](Lore_Jerall_Mountains.md).

## Ardent Hope
[Ardent Hope](Lore_Ardent_Hope.md) is a large fortress that imposes over the Burn; a scorched wasteland in the [Deadlands](Lore_Deadlands.md) of [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md). Some have considered Ardent Hope the strongest out of [Mehrunes Dagon](Lore_Mehrunes_Dagon.md)'s seven-hundred and seventy-seven citadels. Ardent Hope is both the seat of power for Valkynaz Nokvroz, who commands the Ruinblood Clan of [Dremora](Lore_Dremora.md) as well as the home of the Ravener, a [Dremnaken](Lore_Dremnaken.md) that consumes knowledge with [blood magic](Lore_Blood_Magic.md) and stores it in the **Tower of Conviction**. There is a subsection of the fort called the **Path of Cinders**, which leads to the volcano; **Xarxes Crucible**.

## Arenthia
[Arenthia](Lore_Arenthia.md) is one of the eight major cities in the province of [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md), serving as the province's largest settlement in the borderlands of [Reaper's March](Lore_Reaper%27s_March.md). Arenthia is the resulting amalgamation of various cultures that reside in, and have spread their influence throughout, the march. It is an important trade city that is nestled on the fork of both the [Crescent River](Lore_Crescent_River.md) and the [Strid River](Lore_Strid_River.md). It was named after the [first King](Lore_Arenthia_(person).md) of the [Wood Elves](Lore_Bosmer.md).

## Argent Mine
The [Argent Mine](Lore_Argent_Mine.md) was a [silver](Lore_Silver.md) mine located in southern [Wrothgar](Lore_Wrothgar.md), though its resources were said to be long exhausted by the late sixth century of the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md#Sixth_Century). Along with silver ore, the rare metal known as [Liquid Silver](Lore_Liquid_Silver.md) was also found there.

## Arkay (planet)
The planet [Arkay](Lore_Arkay_(planet).md), sometimes called **RKHET**, is one of the Dominion Planets in the skies of [Mundus](Lore_Mundus.md), and according to the Warrior-Poet, [Vivec](Lore_Vivec.md), it is one of the eight worlds known to the [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md). No other planet orbits Arkay. Arkay marks the eye of the [Thief](Lore_The_Thief.md) [constellation](Lore_Constellations.md). As with all astral bodies seen in the skies above [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md) and their corresponding deities, the planet Arkay is believed to be the plane of the god [Arkay](Lore_Arkay.md) as well as the god himself, as seen from the mortal plane. It is said to actually be a different [plane of existence](Lore_Planes_of_Existence.md) in its own right, infinite in size and mass, with its appearance as a sphere being only a visual phenomenon caused by mortal mental stress.

## Arkngthamz
[Arkngthamz](Lore_Arkngthamz.md) is a [Dwarven ruin](Lore_Dwemer_Ruins.md) located high in the hills of [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md), in the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). In its prime, it was occupied by the [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md) of [Clan Kragen](Lore_Kragen.md) and it led an alliance of four pocket city-states that spanned all over ancient Skyrim. The purpose of the alliance was to harness a rare, blue crystal called [Aetherium](Lore_Aetherium.md) and Arkngthamz's role was to study its properties. For the longest time, the ruins were well-preserved until an earthquake sundered the ruins down the middle, creating a deep, boreal chasm to the innermost chamber.

## Arnesia
[Arnesia](Lore_Arnesia.md) is a location or region in the eastern parts of [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md), near [Archon](Lore_Archon.md) and [Thorn](Lore_Thorn.md). [Elven](Lore_Mer.md) civilizations of Black Marsh, such as the [Barsaebic Ayleids](Lore_Barsaebic_Ayleids.md) and the [Cantemiric Velothi](Lore_Cantemiric_Velothi.md), were known to settle and inhabit territories around the Arnesia, as well as Archon and Thorn, before their extinction. There is a round island off the east coast of this area, which has a dark green/gray terrain when viewed from overhead, different from anything seen in the rest of the province.

## Arpenia
[Arpenia](Lore_Arpenia.md) (translated as *"[the] Nobility"* in [Ayleidoon](Lore_Ayleidoon.md)) is an [Ayleid ruin](Lore_Ayleid_Ruins.md) found in the rainforests of [Blackwood](Lore_Blackwood.md), in the province of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), along the [Yellow Road](Lore_Yellow_Road.md) to [Leyawiin](Lore_Leyawiin.md). It is noted for the illuminating white [crystals](Lore_Meteoric_Glass.md) that light its subterranean halls.

## Lake Arrius
[Lake Arrius](Lore_Lake_Arrius.md) is a lake north of [Cheydinhal](Lore_Cheydinhal.md). It can be found right where the [Nibenay Basin](Lore_Nibenay_Basin.md) region meets the [Jerall Mountains](Lore_Jerall_Mountains.md). A small community of worshippers lives around a shrine to [Azura](Lore_Azura.md) northwest of the lake.

In the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), it was the site of Arrius Keep, a fort in the center of the [Ebonheart Pact](Lore_Ebonheart_Pact.md)'s claimed territory. In [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433), the [Hero of Kvatch](Lore_Hero.md) famously infiltrated a [Mythic Dawn](Lore_Mythic_Dawn.md) lair near the lake and took the [Mysterium Xarxes](Lore_Mysterium_Xarxes.md) as part of the effort to end the [Oblivion Crisis](Lore_Oblivion_Crisis.md).

## Artaeum
The Isle of [Artaeum](Lore_Artaeum.md) is the third largest island of the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md), located off the southeast coast of the main island of [Summerset](Lore_Summerset_Isle.md), south of the [Moridunon](Lore_Auridon.md) village of [Potansa](Lore_Potansa.md) and west of the Summerset village of Runcibae —and it is significantly smaller than the other two islands. Artaeum is the home of the [Psijic Order](Lore_Psijic_Order.md), the oldest monastic group on [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). It has a tendency to vanish from [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md), being placed in a pocket realm for centuries at a time by the magic of the Psijics. It is said that this plane exists in a place harder to reach than even [Aetherius](Lore_Aetherius.md) or even realms "beyond" it, where even the magic of the [Sea Sload](Lore_Sea_Sload.md) can't reach, thus allowing for the Order to research the truths of [Aurbis](Lore_Aurbis.md) without interruption. It is said that even the [Daedric Princes](Lore_Daedric_Princes.md) do not know where Artaeum is located, though the Psijics maintain telepathic contact with certain oracles of the [Wyrd](Lore_Wyrd.md) to gain information on Tamriel's affairs, and the island's location can be discerned if one finds such an oracle and traces the connection back to the island itself, even allowing for a portal to it to be opened. The island is protected by the Psijic Order's warding magic and only those that the Psijics have attuned to the wards can enter. Permanent portals leading to Artaeum, wherever it might be, exist in certain Psijic ruins in Summerset such as the Keep of the Eleven Forces.

The Isle of Artaeum has idyllic orchards and clear pastures, still and silent lagoons, misty woodlands, and the unique Psijic architecture that seems to be as natural as its surroundings. The [Ceporah Tower](Lore_Ceporah_Tower.md) is a relic from a civilization that predates the High Elves by several hundred years. It is the location of the Dreaming Cavern, which [Sotha Sil](Lore_Sotha_Sil.md) once used as some sort of portal into the realms of Oblivion, but which has since been sealed off by the Psijics. The Isle of Artaeum was once removed from the world in a similar fashion to [Umbriel](Lore_Umbriel.md), but reappeared about 500 years later. The Isle of Artaeum once again disappeared around 100 years before the [civil war](Lore_Stormcloak_Rebellion.md) in [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), and has not been seen since.

Directly beneath the island's [Ceporah Tower](Lore_Ceporah_Tower.md) lies the Dreaming Cave, which houses a portal that can be used to travel to any realm of [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md) and beyond, and is described as the place where all the [magicka](Lore_Magicka.md) and other energies in Artaeum pool, like water dripping from a chain.

The Isle of Artaeum was home to [Mannimarco](Lore_Mannimarco.md), the leader of [Necromancy](Lore_Necromancy.md) in [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md).

## Arum-Khal's Realm
[Arum-Khal's Realm](Lore_Arum-Khal%27s_Realm.md) was a dark plane of existence created by the [dro-m'Athra](Lore_Dro-m%27Athra.md) [lich](Lore_Lich.md) [Arum-Khal](Lore_Arum-Khal.md) where only dark spirits could thrive. It resembled floating islands with glowing [corals](Lore_Coral.md) and ruined [Khajiiti](Lore_Khajiit.md) architecture hanging in a void of eternal twilight, reminiscent to that of the [Dark Behind the World](Lore_Dark_Behind_the_World.md). It was destroyed circa [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582).

## Ascadian Isles
The [Ascadian Isles](Lore_Ascadian_Isles.md) were fertile, lush agricultural lowlands mainly under [House Hlaalu](Lore_House_Hlaalu.md) control in [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md)'s southwestern area. The climate was temperate and comfortable, with moderate rainfall. The region encompassed land as far south as [Ebonheart](Lore_Castle_Ebonheart.md), west to the [Foyada Mamaea](Lore_Foyada_Mamaea.md), north to the central [Ashlands](Lore_Ashlands.md) just past the Fields of Kummu shrine, and east to the large [Daedric shrine](Lore_Daedric_Shrines.md) of [Ald Sotha](Lore_Ald_Sotha.md). The land was rich in nutrients and therefore littered with small farms and plantations. The islands themselves, while scattered, were close enough for easy transportation, the only main obstacle being [Lake Amaya](Lore_Lake_Amaya_(Vvardenfell).md). Notable vegetation included large mushroom-like plants not unlike trees, [corkbulb](Lore_Corkbulb.md), [marshmerrow](Lore_Marshmerrow.md) and [muckspunge](Lore_Muckspunge.md).

Major cities in the Ascadian Isles included the [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) stronghold of [Ebonheart](Lore_Castle_Ebonheart.md), the Temple city of [Vivec](Lore_Vivec_(city).md), the market town of [Suran](Lore_Suran.md), and [Pelagiad](Lore_Pelagiad.md). The architecture was a mix of Hlaalu, Velothi, and Imperial. Additionally, many of the councilors of [Great House](Lore_Great_Houses.md) Hlaalu maintained plantations in the Isles to exploit the region's good growing soil, and to breed [netch](Lore_Netch.md) for their leather.

## Ash Mountain
[Ash Mountain](Lore_Ash_Mountain.md) is a volcano in southeastern [Stonefalls](Lore_Stonefalls.md), in the [Daen Seeth](Lore_Daen_Seeth.md) region, west of the town of [Senie](Lore_Senie.md) and east of [Ebonheart](Lore_Ebonheart.md). The mountain is surrounded by the [Daedric](Lore_Daedra.md) ruins of the Great Temple of [Boethiah](Lore_Boethiah.md), constructed by the [Chimer](Lore_Chimer.md) prior to the ascension of the [Tribunal](Lore_Tribunal.md). It also houses a small ruined shrine to [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md). Large numbers of [scamps](Lore_Scamp.md) and [clannfear](Lore_Clannfear.md) can be found in the ruins, along with [shalk](Lore_Shalk.md) near the lava flows.

The volcano served as a prison for [Balreth](Lore_Balreth.md), one of the [Brothers of Strife](Lore_Brothers_of_Strife_(creature).md). In [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), [Tanval Indoril](Lore_Tanval_Indoril.md), the grandmaster of [House Indoril](Lore_House_Indoril.md), summoned Balreth and ordered him to destroy the [Daggerfall Covenant](Lore_Daggerfall_Covenant.md) army attacking the city of [Davon's Watch](Lore_Davon%27s_Watch.md). Balreth routed the invading army before they entered the city, but he was deemed too dangerous to remain unbound. With the help of the [Vestige](Lore_The_Vestige.md) and the spirit of [Mavos Siloreth](Lore_Mavos_Siloreth.md), a Chimer who had originally bound Balreth in the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md), Balreth was defeated beneath the Ash Mountain and his spirit was bound again.

## Ashalmawia
[Ashalmawia](Lore_Ashalmawia.md) is a ruined [daedric temple](Lore_Daedric_Ruins.md) found on the seaside hills of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md), in the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). Situated on the bleak wealds of the [West Gash](Lore_West_Gash.md), it is an old temple dedicated to the [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Prince.md) of Domination, [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md), one of the Four Corners of the [House of Troubles](Lore_House_of_Troubles.md). The Sunken Vaults of the temple have been used by the Prince's countless worshippers, including the [Order of the Black Worm](Lore_Order_of_the_Black_Worm.md) to bring about his wrath and influence.

## Ashalmimilkala
[Ashalmimilkalai](Lore_Ashalmimilkala.md) is a ruined [Daedric temple](Lore_Daedric_Ruins.md) found in [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md), an island in the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). Situated in the coastal swamps of the [Bitter Coast](Lore_Bitter_Coast.md), it is an old temple dedicated to the [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Prince.md) of Destruction, [Mehrunes Dagon](Lore_Mehrunes_Dagon.md), one of the Four Corners of the [House of Troubles](Lore_House_of_Troubles.md).

## Ashlands
The [Ashlands](Lore_Ashlands.md) region was the largest contiguous geographical region on [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md) —a dry, inhospitable wasteland characterized by clusters of stone obelisks; minimal, highly-adapted vegetation; and bubbling ash mires. It encompassed land from the [Urshilaku Camp](Lore_Urshilaku_Camp.md) on the northern shore of the [Sea of Ghosts](Lore_Sea_of_Ghosts.md), west to the [Redoran](Lore_House_Redoran.md) Council seat [Ald'ruhn](Lore_Ald%27ruhn.md), then south to where the slopes of [Red Mountain](Lore_Red_Mountain.md) leveled off into the lava fields of [Molag Amur](Lore_Molag_Amur.md). The southern border ran on an approximate line from [Foyada Mamaea](Lore_Foyada_Mamaea.md), near [Balmora](Lore_Balmora.md), to the southern border of the [Grazelands](Lore_Grazelands.md).

The mountainous region to the southeast of Molag Amur was sometimes considered part of the Ashlands because of the similarity of its ecology, but was generally flatter, with open lava flows. Also, the slopes of Red Mountain itself were a separate region, bound by the [Ghostfence](Lore_Ghostfence.md). Frequent ash storms limited visibility and spread [the Blight](Lore_The_Blight.md), affecting almost every creature found in the region.

Only the western part of the Ashlands was under permanent control of House Redoran. The only large, permemnant settlements were [Maar Gan](Lore_Maar_Gan.md) and Ald'ruhn, though some considered Ald'ruhn to be just on the margins rather than part of the Ashlands itself. The shrine in Maar Gan was an important Temple pilgrimage site, and the village's houses volunteered militia for the fight against the forces of [Dagoth Ur](Lore_Dagoth_Ur.md). The nomadic [Ashlander](Lore_Ashlanders.md) tribe of the [Urshilaku](Lore_Urshilaku_Tribe.md) hunted for game, foraged, and their herds found sparse grazing around ragged tent villages in the far northwest, but there were small Ashlander camps throughout the area outside the Ghostfence. The rest of the region was embattled with infractions of rogue Telvanni, bandits, and even vampires trying to gain a foothold. The interior of the Ashlands was thus largely devoid of permanent, occupied settlements, with the citadel of [Ghostgate](Lore_Ghostgate.md) being the major exception. This was due to the lack of water and vegetation in the area, as it rarely ever rained. Scattered throughout the land were various caves, eggmines, [Daedric](Lore_Daedric_Ruins.md) and [Dwemer ruins](Lore_Dwemer_Ruins.md), and wizards' towers.

## Ashmelech
[Ashmelech](Lore_Ashmelech.md) is an isolated catacomb in the archipelago region of [Sheogorad](Lore_Sheogorad.md), in the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). It is built on a small island between the main island near the Velothi tower, Shara, and the mainland near the Chimer stronghold, Valenvaryon. It is the home of the [Aundae Clan](Lore_Aundae_Clan.md), one of the three [vampire](Lore_Vampire.md) clans of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md). The clan uses an enchanted extravagant [ruby](Lore_Ruby.md) amulet to [magically transport](Lore_Magical_Transportation.md) members back to Ashmelech.

## Ashpit
[Ashpit](Lore_Ashpit.md) is a realm of [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md) ruled over by [Malacath](Lore_Malacath.md), the [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Princes.md) of Outcasts. The exact manner and time in which the realm came to be, and whether and how it might be tied to the commonly believed transformation of [Trinimac](Lore_Trinimac.md) into Malacath, are not known. Orcish spellwrights call for boons from the Ashpit and rarely any other realms. That includes conjuring [Flame](Lore_Flame_Atronach.md) [Atronachs](Lore_Elemental_Daedra.md). The Ashpit is hard to access, as the pathways to his domain take on a characteristic level of concealment to protect the disenfranchised and cast-out.

The realm mostly consists only of dust, palaces of smoke, and vaporous creatures; anguish, betrayal, and broken promises like ash fill the bitter air. Few mortals manage to reach the realm, where levitation and magical breathing are necessary to survive. The [Mages Guild](Lore_Mages_Guild.md) have been known to bottle the realm's thick, roiling vapor.

The Spine of Ashpit is a surprisingly light skeletal spine found in the realm. It is made from a grey dust, and fragments of bone have been known to be taken from it and brought to [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). [Sheogorath](Lore_Sheogorath.md) claims that the spine is the metaphorical "backbone" of the realm, which he looks down upon.

However, some areas of the realm are safe for mortals. In [4E 48](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_48), Malacath chose to bring [Sul](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Books:The_Infernal_City/Sul) and [Prince Attrebus Mede](Lore_Attrebus_Mede.md) to the Ashpit, where they found a garden of slender trees, and "vines festooned with lilylike flowers" wound about the trunks; a "multitude of spheres moved, deep in the colorless sky, as distant and pale as moons". Occasionally the vines "collapsed and formed into a cloud of black moths that swarmed about them". This garden seems to have some emotional significance to Malacath, who describes it as a "shadow of a garden", and an "echo of something that once was".

## Ashurnabitashpi
[Ashurnabitashpi](Lore_Ashurnabitashpi.md), sometimes spelled **Assurnabitashpi**, is a [ruin](Lore_Daedric_Ruins.md) found in the [Ashlands](Lore_Ashlands.md) of northern [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md). The site is notable for being associated with the [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Prince.md) [Mehrunes Dagon](Lore_Mehrunes_Dagon.md).

## Asil Yelir
[Asil Yelir](Lore_Asil_Yelir.md) is an island in the [Eltheric Ocean](Lore_Eltheric_Ocean.md), south of the [Sea of Pearls](Lore_Sea_of_Pearls.md), that is possibly considered a part of the [Yokudan](Lore_Yokuda.md) archipelago. The two large islands [Nalonga](Lore_Nalonga.md) and [Ravan](Lore_Ravan.md) neighbor it to the northwest and southeast, respectively. It shares the word "Yelir" with the similarly sized [Siuol Yelir](Lore_Siuol_Yelir.md) to its southwest.

## Assalkushalit
[Assalkushalit](Lore_Assalkushalit.md) (also known as **Kushalit Sanctuary**) is a [Daedric ruin](Lore_Daedric_Ruins.md) located on the northern side of the [Red Mountain](Lore_Red_Mountain.md), inside the [Ghostfence](Lore_Ghostfence.md), southeast of [Maar Gan](Lore_Maar_Gan.md). The ruin's interior contains a shrine dedicated to [Sheogorath](Lore_Sheogorath.md), [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Princes.md) of Madness.

## Aswala Stables
The [Aswala Stables](Lore_Aswala_Stables.md) is a town near the coast of the [Alik'r Desert](Lore_Alik%27r_Desert.md), in the province of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md) near the port-town of [Tava's Blessing](Lore_Tava%27s_Blessing.md). It is known for its expert [horse](Lore_Horse.md) -breeders, specifically regarding the [Yokudan Chargers](Lore_Yokudan_Charger.md), an iconic breed of horse that comes from the main island of [Akos Kasaz](Lore_Akos_Kasaz.md), on the lost continent of [Yokuda](Lore_Yokuda.md). It is also the home of the Aswala family of horse-breeders, known members of the [Crowns](Lore_Crowns.md). Much like the larger cities such as [Sentinel](Lore_Sentinel.md) and [Hallin's Stand](Lore_Hallin%27s_Stand.md), the town of Aswala Stables is overseen by a Grandee.

## Atatar
[Atatar](Lore_Atatar.md) (translated as "Fatherwood" in [Ayleidoon](Lore_Ayleidoon.md)) is an [Ayleid ruin](Lore_Ayleid_Ruins.md) found in the rainforests of [Blackwood](Lore_Blackwood.md), in the province of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). It is located within the Niben Forest region, in the glens situated off the [Yellow Road](Lore_Yellow_Road.md) to [Leyawiin](Lore_Leyawiin.md). It was once home to the Atataric clan of Ayleids. Its subsections of *Haelia Dagon*, *Haelia Anga*, and *Loria* translate to "Terrible Destruction", "Terrible Iron/Cold", and "Darkness" respectively.

## Atmora
[Atmora](Lore_Atmora.md), or **Altmora** in [Aldmeris](Lore_Aldmeris_(language).md), (meaning *"Elder Wood"*), and referred to as "the land of truth" by Atmorans, is a [continent](Lore_Places.md) north of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md), where tradition has it the first [humans](Lore_Human.md) came from in [ancient days](Lore_Merethic_Era.md). It has been claimed to be the ancestral land for all [Nedic peoples](Lore_Nede.md), the ancestors of the [Cyrodilians](Lore_Imperial.md), [Bretons](Lore_Breton.md), and [Nords](Lore_Nord.md).

The continent was once teeming with life, but has since been frozen over in an event dubbed "the [Frostfall](Lore_Frostfall.md)", smothering it with frost, placing it in a permanent winter, and potentially even freezing it in [time](Lore_Time.md). The cause of the event is uncertain, though one tale attributes it as revenge by the [Snow Elves](Lore_Snow_Elf.md) for the genocide of their people at the hands of the Atmorans. The closest known group to inhabit areas north of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) are the [Sea Giants](Lore_Sea_Giant.md), who [sail the waters](Lore_Sea_Transportation.md) of the [Sea of Ghosts](Lore_Sea_of_Ghosts.md).

## Atmoran Frostwood
[Atmoran Frostwood](Lore_Atmoran_Frostwood.md), also simply called **Frostwood**, is a notable forest in [Atmora](Lore_Atmora.md), closely associated with the Goat Cult. [Ysgramor](Lore_Ysgramor.md) was also known to hunt within its depths.

## Attribution's Share
[Attribution's Share](Lore_Attribution%27s_Share.md) is the plane of [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md) created and ruled over by [Boethiah](Lore_Boethiah.md), the [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Princes.md) of Deceit. The Realm of Boethia is described as a country of labyrinthine policy and betrayals, with maze gardens and twisted towers. It was formerly known as **Snake Mount**.

## Aurbis
The [Aurbis](Lore_Aurbis.md), also known as the **Gray Maybe** (which means **[Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md)** in the [Ehlnofex](Lore_Ehlnofex.md)), and at times personified as the Feminine Principle of the Cosmos [**Nir**](Lore_Nir.md), is the name given to the chaos, or totality, from which the cosmos was formed by [Anu](Lore_Anu.md) and [Padomay](Lore_Padomay.md). For all intents and purposes, it is the universe, encompassing the [Void](Lore_Void.md) and all [Planes of Existence](Lore_Planes_of_Existence.md) including [Mundus](Lore_Mundus.md), [Aetherius](Lore_Aetherius.md), and the planes of [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md). It is said that there also exist planes beyond Aetherius, and harder to travel to than it, where even powerful [magic](Lore_Magic.md) such as that of the [Sea Sload](Lore_Sea_Sload.md) can't reach, and the location of which is unknown to even the [Daedric Princes](Lore_Daedric_Princes.md). The plane to which the [Psijic Order](Lore_Psijic_Order.md) transport their island of [Artaeum](Lore_Artaeum.md) when it is not on [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md) is said to be one such realm.

Many sources describe the structure of the Aurbis as a wheel: Mundus is the hub, the empty spaces within it are the planes of Oblivion, the rim encompasses the realms of Aetherius, and the emptiness beyond it is the Void. The eight spokes connecting the rim to the hub represent the [Eight Divines](Lore_Eight_Divines.md) that played a major part in [Creation](Lore_Dawn_Era.md). The Eight Divines are also depicted as planets, orbiting [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md) and its moons at the center of the Aurbis. The sun, [Magnus](Lore_Magnus.md), was created when the god Magnus fled Mundus to Aetherius, and the stars were formed by the [Magna Ge](Lore_Magna_Ge.md) who followed. According to [Vivec](Lore_Vivec.md), [Stasis](Lore_Anu.md) and [Change](Lore_Padomay.md), Anu and Padomay, are infinite forces and realms residing in the infinite Void, the latter infinity paradoxically enclosing the others in a manner akin to an encircling sphere. At the intersection of the two forces, where they touch, lies a "perfect circle of pattern and possibility", the Wheel, and inside that Wheel lies the Aurbis which is its foundation. Vivec claims that outside the Wheel exists the Void, which cannot truly be named and is bereft of anything. The Void is said to have more aspects than just Stasis and Change, but they cannot be named as they are outside of true language. Some Altmeri sources claim that, rather than being a single wheel, the Aurbis is instead more akin to "a telescope that stretches all the way back to the eye of Anui-El, with Padomaics innumerable along its infinite walls". Magnus is said to be at times, represented by a telescope. The [Eye of Magnus](Lore_Eye_of_Magnus.md) was, among other ideas, theorized by the [College of Winterhold](Lore_College_of_Winterhold.md) to contain the entirety of the Aurbis. Though this theory was considered dubious at best, close observations on the Eye yielded no evidence to the contrary.

## Auridon
[Auridon](Lore_Auridon.md), also known as **Moridunon**<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_nb1)</sup> or **Kaelann**, is the second largest island in the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md), located off the far eastern coast of Summerset, and north of [Artaeum](Lore_Artaeum.md), between the main island and the continent of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). The main cities on the island are [Firsthold](Lore_Firsthold.md) to the north, [Skywatch](Lore_Skywatch.md) to the east, and [Vulkhel Guard](Lore_Vulkhel_Guard.md) to the south.

Auridon is one of fourteen islands of varying sizes that form the Summerset Isles, and is the eastern bulwark of the Summerset archipelago. The island was well defended throughout history not only by its veteran Elven warriors but also due to its unique position and natural geography. Walls of vast, craggy cliffs dotted its northern coast, and its strategic location protected mainland Summerset from numerous invasions. Auridon loans its name to the body of water that separates it from the main island, the [Auridon Strait](Lore_Auridon_Strait.md). The [Diceto River](Lore_Diceto_River.md) flows through the city of Firsthold and empties into the [Abecean Sea](Lore_Abecean_Sea.md) on the island's northern coast.

## Auridon Strait
The [Auridon Strait](Lore_Auridon_Strait.md) is the body of water that separates the strait's namesake, [Auridon](Lore_Auridon.md) and the main island of the archipelago, [Summerset Isle](Lore_Summerset_Isle.md). Two of the province's cities, [Shimmerene](Lore_Shimmerene.md) and [Vulkhel Guard](Lore_Vulkhel_Guard.md) are located on the strait, as well as the town of [Greenwater Cove](Lore_Greenwater_Cove.md), a large port with an ancient defensive device. It is a long, winding strait that also functions as a major route in-between the two islands. Since Shimmerene is where many mainlanders enter the main island, most people travel through the strait. The body of water is neighbored by the [Abecean Sea](Lore_Abecean_Sea.md) to the north and the [Eltheric Ocean](Lore_Eltheric_Ocean.md) proper to the south.

## Avanchnzel
[Avanchnzel](Lore_Avanchnzel.md) (roughly meaning *Eternal City* in [Dwemeris](Lore_Dwemer_Language.md)) is a [Dwarven](Lore_Dwemer.md) [ruin](Lore_Dwemer_Ruins.md) located on the slopes of the [Jerall Mountains](Lore_Jerall_Mountains.md) in [The Rift](Lore_The_Rift.md), south of the [Treva River](Lore_Treva_River.md) and west of [Riften](Lore_Riften.md). Once a great hall of dwarven construction, Avanchnzel was as much a library as it was a city, built to hold the vast memories of the Dwemer. It was run almost exclusively by [strange mechanical spiders](Lore_Dwarven_Spider.md).

A lexicon is kept stored deep within, remaining heavily guarded for millennia after the disappearance of the Dwemer. The knowledge contained in the Lexicon is said to hold the accumulated memories of centuries of Dwemer, and was responsible for creating everything within the ruins. Many of the [animunculi](Lore_Dwemer_Animunculi.md) residing within remained asleep, waiting for an unknown purpose…

## Axer Rock
[Axer Rock](Lore_Axer_Rock.md) is a port located in the [Eltheric Ocean](Lore_Eltheric_Ocean.md), relatively close to [High Elven waters](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md) (which is also known to be the speediest way to the Rock, in comparison to other shipping routes). Trade goods on Axer Rock are often shipped to and from mainland [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md), with it trading often with the [kingdom](Lore_Hero.md#Dynasty_of_Odar_the_Brave) founded by [Odar the Brave](Lore_Odar_the_Brave.md). Some mainlanders consider selling goods to Axer Rock to be "too risky"—at times, Axer Rock shipments are prone to being stolen by pirates.

The port itself is home to a local population of craftsman, including but not limited to: shippers, artisans, bakers, and antique booksellers. A particular baker from the port became famous throughout the [Empire](Lore_Empire_of_Tamriel.md), and its artists are described as renowned.

## Ayasofya
[Ayasofya](Lore_Ayasofya.md) is a region on the western coast of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), in the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md). It was a county bordered by [Tigonus](Lore_Tigonus_(fiefdom).md) to the north, the [Alik'r Desert](Lore_Alik%27r_Desert.md) to the southeast, [Antiphyllos](Lore_Antiphyllos.md) to the south, and [Sentinel](Lore_Sentinel_(kingdom).md) to the west in the [3rd Era](Lore_Third_Era.md).

Its main city is the city of Ayasofya. On the 2nd of Last Seed, the residents of the area celebrate a holiday known as [Maiden Katrica](Lore_Maiden_Katrica.md) in honor of a warrior who saved them during a previous war.

## Azra's Crossing
[Azra's Crossing](Lore_Azra%27s_Crossing.md) is a village that was built in close proximity to a large magically-made crater, located in the region known as the [Western Reach](Lore_Western_Reach.md) (that was bordered by the provinces of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md), and [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) during the [War of the Bend'r-mahk](Lore_War_of_the_Bend%27r-mahk.md)). While isolated, the settlement has a water source in the form of a waterfall that flows into the crater. Azra's Crossing also lies southwest of [Earthtear Caverns](Lore_Earthtear_Caverns.md).

## Azura's Coast
The [Azura's Coast](Lore_Azura%27s_Coast.md) (or **Telvanni Coast**) region consisted mainly of the numerous islands to the south and east of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md). It included all of the southern islands east of the Daedric ruin of [Ald Sotha](Lore_Ald_Sotha.md), extended north to include the islands up the eastern coast and [Zafirbel Bay](Lore_Zafirbel_Bay.md), and three small peninsulas on the southeastern corner of Vvardenfell where a Shrine of Azura could be found.

The area was fairly desolate, and most of the territory was claimed by [House Telvanni](Lore_House_Telvanni.md). It included the towns and towers of [Tel Mora](Lore_Tel_Mora.md), [Tel Aruhn](Lore_Tel_Aruhn.md), [Sadrith Mora](Lore_Sadrith_Mora.md), [Tel Fyr](Lore_Tel_Fyr.md), and [Tel Branora](Lore_Tel_Branora.md). It was also home to numerous wizards, sorcerers, necromancers, and [Ashlander](Lore_Ashlanders.md) Mabrigashes. Many of these were based in old Velothi remnants or caves, rather than wizard towers. By no means were all magic-workers in the area Telvanni, but the dominance of the Telvanni did mean that there was little objection to their activities.

As the area was dominated by the Telvanni, it was one of the least subject to the power of either the [Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md) or the [Tribunal](Lore_Tribunal.md), though both had enclaves in the House capital, Sadrith Mora. Since Telvanni lords were usually over a thousand years old and very powerful, they tended to see the "gods" of the Tribunal as peers rather than supreme beings.

Despite the rocky terrain, a variety of plants thrive on the region's regular rainfall. However, there were Ashlander camps scattered throughout the region. The area was full of ancestral tombs, and there were several significant Daedric Shrines on the islands. Many bandits preyed on unwary travelers.

## Azurian Sea
The [Azurian Sea](Lore_Azurian_Sea.md) is the sea north of the [Yokudan archipelago](Lore_Yokuda.md), far west of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md). It is part of the [Eltheric Ocean](Lore_Eltheric_Ocean.md) and meets the [Sea of Pearls](Lore_Sea_of_Pearls.md) in the south. On some maps, an unnamed landmass appears to be depicted far north of Yokuda within the Azurian Sea.

## References
1. [^](#cite_ref-1) Appearance in [Skyrim](Skyrim_Skyrim.md)
2. [^](#cite_ref-2) Appearance in [ESO](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Online)
3. [^](#cite_ref-Customs_3-0) [*Ashlander Tribes and Customs*](Lore_Ashlander_Tribes_and_Customs.md) — [Ulran Releth](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Ulran_Releth) of [House Redoran](Lore_House_Redoran.md)
4. [^](#cite_ref-4) [Ahemmusa Nerevarine](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Morrowind:Ahemmusa_Nerevarine) quest in [*Morrowind*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Morrowind:Morrowind)
5. [^](#cite_ref-ATOTD_5-0) [*Ancient Tales of the Dwemer*](Lore_Ancient_Tales_of_the_Dwemer.md) — [Marobar Sul](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Marobar_Sul)
6. [^](#cite_ref-CKL_6-0) [*Charwich-Koniinge Letters*](Lore_Charwich-Koniinge_Letters.md) — Charwich and Koniinge
7. [^](#cite_ref-Tholgamis_7-0) [*The Lord's Mail*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Arena:Artifact_Quests#The_Lord.27s_Mail) quest during [Arena](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Arena:Arena)