# Akha

Akha is a [Khajiiti](Lore_Khajiit.md) deity mentioned in some [Pre-ri'Datta](Lore_Rid-Thar-ri%27Datta.md) traditions, who was also known as the **First Cat**, the **Pathfinder**, and the **One Unmourned**. Early in his existence, Akha explored the heavens and his trails became the [Many Paths](Lore_Many_Paths.md), forming myriad kingdoms. As he was also the favored son of [Ahnurr](Lore_Ahnurr.md), he followed his father's advice to find love and mated across the corners of the world with beings from distant lands, including the [Winged Serpent of the East](Lore_Winged_Serpent_of_the_East.md), the [Dune Queen of the West](Lore_Dune_Queen_of_the_West.md), and the [Mother Mammoth of the North](Lore_Mother_Mammoth_of_the_North.md), resulting in numerous [wayward children](Lore_Dragon.md). However, he vanished after heading south and was never seen again.

In the place of Akha, [Alkosh](Lore_Alkosh.md) appeared, and warned of the things Akha had made along the Many Paths. Taking over the role and crown of the First Cat, he inherited rulership over the myriad kingdoms of Akha along the Many Paths. Alkosh also ruled the children of Akha, but he was soon [overthrown](Lore_Middle_Dawn.md) and his body scattered on the West Wind. It is said that [Khenarthi](Lore_Khenarthi.md) then flew across the Paths and put Alkosh back together, and now they both guard the Many Paths from the "wayward children of Akha".<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-TWS-1)</sup><sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_nb1)</sup>

Among the offspring of Akha, [Alkhan](Lore_Alduin.md) is the most well-known. He is described as the immortal firstborn son of Akha and a [demon of fire and shadow](Lore_Demon_of_Fire_and_Shadow.md), that is eternally hungry to claim his crown.<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-TWS-1)</sup>

In another text relating to [Boethra](Lore_Boethiah.md)'s role during the [Middle Dawn](Lore_Middle_Dawn.md), Ahka is mentioned as the being who exiled her to the Many Paths rather than Ahnurr. However, due to the [Marukhati Selective](Lore_Marukhati_Selective.md)'s actions, reality was described as being rewritten; *"[...] yet these new words said that Akha was never there, nor was Alkosh, nor Alkhan, nor any Children of Akha, nor any of the lands that he seeded and brought unto his kingdom. And in this chaos Boethra began to wonder if she was the Daughter of Blades at all, or if it had all been one long dream of someone she never knew."* The story then goes to say Boethra draws her Hidden Sword and fights against the Dragon Break.<sup>[[2]](#cite_note-Bladesongs-2)</sup>

In writings after the Rid-Thar-ri'Datta religious reforms were established, Akha is no longer mentioned, along with Alkhan and his other children. This is in contrast to Alkosh, who is still considered part of the pantheon, and has been given the title and role as the First Cat.<sup>[[3]](#cite_note-WOCMA-3)</sup>

## Notes
- | [1.](#note_nb1) | *The Wandering Spirits* recounts the tale of Akha, who fathered offspring with the Winged Serpent, Mother Mammoth, and Dune Queen. Upon Akha's vanishing in the South, Alkosh "was granted rule over the myriad kingdoms of Akha along the Many Paths", and would watch over Akha's children. However, they rebelled against Alkosh, only for Khenarthi to restore him afterward. Together, they now oversee them.<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-TWS-1)</sup> The term "wayward children of Alkosh" was used by Clan Mother Tadali, a leader of a temple dedicated to Khenarthi, to describe dragons.<sup>[[4]](#cite_note-Tadali-4)</sup> Moreover, the dragon [Nahfahlaar](Lore_Nahfahlaar.md) referred to Alkosh as his father.<sup>[[5]](#cite_note-Nahfahlaar-5)</sup> |
| --- | --- |
- | [2.](#note_nb2) | [Alkosh](Lore_Alkosh.md) is also given the sobriquet "First Cat".<sup>[[3]](#cite_note-WOCMA-3)</sup> |
| --- | --- |
- | [3.](#note_nb3) | In the [Dunmeri](Lore_Dunmer.md) myth *[From Exile to Exodus](Lore_From_Exile_to_Exodus.md)*, there is mention of [Azura](Lore_Azura.md)'s spell, the song, which includes the name of Akha among others: "[UR DRA](Lore_Ur-dra.md) AMATHRA! FU ROZ ISA MAL AKHA."<sup>[[6]](#cite_note-FETE-6)</sup> |
| --- | --- |
- | [4.](#note_nb4) | *The Nine Coruscations*, a religious text of [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) origins describes linear time being layered upon infinite possibility in connection to what happened to [Aka](Lore_Akatosh.md) in the south, how he learned why his insanity is all that is and could be, and by that lesson [Ada-Mantia](Lore_Adamantine_Tower.md) was established as a stable spire fixed by a [stone](Lore_The_Towers.md) of nothing-possible. This account might be a description of the disappearance of Akha in the south and the return of Alkosh, who has himself been described as both weaver and embodiment of time's all-encompassing tapestry,<sup>[[7]](#cite_note-Ja.27darri-7)</sup> in his place, from a different cultural perspective.<sup>[[8]](#cite_note-9C-8)</sup> |
| --- | --- |

## References
1. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-TWS_1-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-TWS_1-1)***</sup><sup>***[c](#cite_ref-TWS_1-2)***</sup> [*The Wandering Spirits*](Lore_The_Wandering_Spirits.md) — [Amun-dro](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Amun-dro.2C_the_Silent_Priest), the Silent Priest
2. [^](#cite_ref-Bladesongs_2-0) [*The Bladesongs of Boethra, Volume V*](Lore_The_Bladesongs_of_Boethra,_Volume_V.md) — [Modun-Ra](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Modun-Ra), the Hidden Voice
3. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-WOCMA_3-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-WOCMA_3-1)***</sup> [*Words of Clan Mother Ahnissi*](Lore_Words_of_Clan_Mother_Ahnissi.md) — [Clan Mother Ahnissi](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Clan_Mother_Ahnissi)
4. [^](#cite_ref-Tadali_4-0) [Clan Mother Tadali](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Clan_Mother_Tadali)'s dialogue in [ESO](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Online): *[Dragonhold](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Dragonhold)*
5. [^](#cite_ref-Nahfahlaar_5-0) [Nahfahlaar](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Nahfahlaar)'s dialogue in [ESO](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Online): *[Dragonhold](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Dragonhold)*
6. [^](#cite_ref-FETE_6-0) [*From Exile to Exodus*](Lore_From_Exile_to_Exodus.md) — [Tarvyn Aram](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Tarvyn_Aram)
7. [^](#cite_ref-Ja.27darri_7-0) [Ja'darri](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Ja%27darri)'s dialogue in [ESO](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Online): *[Dragonhold](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Dragonhold)*
8. [^](#cite_ref-9C_8-0) [*The Nine Coruscations*](Lore_The_Nine_Coruscations.md) — [Star-Queen Varalias](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Star-Queen_Varalias)