# Uriel V

| Emperor Uriel Septim V | | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Race | Unknown | Gender | Male |
| Born | [Third Era](Lore_Era.md#Third_Era) | | |
| Died | [3E 290](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_290) <br> [Ionith](Lore_Ionith.md), [Akavir](Lore_Akavir.md) | | |
| Resided in | [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md) | | |
| Reign | [3E 268](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_268) - <br> [3E 290](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_290) | | |
| Previous Ruler | [Cephorus II](Lore_Cephorus_II.md) | | |
| Next Ruler | [Uriel VI](Lore_Uriel_VI.md) (emperor) <br> [Thonica](Lore_Thonica.md) (regent) | | |

Uriel Septim V was the seventeenth [emperor](Lore_Cyrodilic_Emperors.md) of the [Third Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md) and [Septim Dynasty](Lore_Septim_Dynasty.md), reigning for twenty-two years, from [3E 268](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_268) to [3E 290](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_290). During his reign, Uriel V conquered [Roscrea](Lore_Roscrea.md), [Cathnoquey](Lore_Cathnoquey.md), [Yneslea](Lore_Yneslea.md), and [Esroniet](Lore_Esroniet.md). In [3E 288](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_288), Uriel V embarked on his most ambitious enterprise when he invaded [Akavir](Lore_Akavir.md), but he was killed during the invasion at the Battle of [Ionith](Lore_Ionith.md) in 3E 290.<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-BHOTE3-1)</sup> Despite his death in Akavir, Uriel V is considered a military genius and second only to [Tiber Septim](Lore_Tiber_Septim.md) as one of the greatest warrior emperors of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md).<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-BHOTE3-1)</sup><sup>[[2]](#cite_note-PGE3O-2)</sup> He was preceded by his father, [Cephorus II](Lore_Cephorus_II.md), and was succeeded by his son, [Uriel VI](Lore_Uriel_VI.md).<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-BHOTE3-1)</sup><sup>[[3]](#cite_note-BHOTE4-3)</sup>

## Biography

### Background and Early Reign
Uriel Septim was the son of [Cephorus Septim](Lore_Cephorus_II.md), who became Emperor Cephorus II in [3E 247](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_247).<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-BHOTE3-1)</sup> In [3E 268](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_268), Uriel succeeded Cephorus II as emperor.<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-BHOTE3-1)</sup><sup>[[4]](#cite_note-TTET-4)</sup>

Uriel V turned public opinion back toward the potential power of the [Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md).<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-BHOTE3-1)</sup> Uriel V decided not to address the ongoing rebellions and civil wars from his father's reign, instead turning the attention of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) away from internal strife by embarking on a series of invasions.<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-BHOTE3-1)</sup><sup>[[3]](#cite_note-BHOTE4-3)</sup> In [3E 271](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_271), he conquered [Roscrea](Lore_Roscrea.md), which became a fief under the emperor's direct control.<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-BHOTE3-1)</sup><sup>[[5]](#cite_note-PGE3S-5)</sup> In [3E 276](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_276), Uriel V and his forces conquered [Cathnoquey](Lore_Cathnoquey.md) and then [Yneslea](Lore_Yneslea.md) in [3E 279](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_279).<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-BHOTE3-1)</sup> In [3E 282](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_282), the port city of [Black Harbor](Lore_Black_Harbor.md) in [Esroniet](Lore_Esroniet.md) fell to Uriel V's forces, and in [3E 284](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_284), the island's ruler, Prince [Bashomon](Lore_Bashomon.md), yielded all of Esroniet to Imperial authority.<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-BHOTE3-1)</sup><sup>[[6]](#cite_note-RDI-6)</sup>

During the early years of his reign, Uriel V was reportedly influenced by the [Council of Artaeum](Lore_Conclave_of_the_Eleven_Forces.md), the ruling body of the [Psijic Order](Lore_Psijic_Order.md).<sup>[[7]](#cite_note-FOA-7)</sup> During the early part of his reign, [Artaeum](Lore_Artaeum.md) apologists prepared a work called "The Myth of Aurbis" for Uriel V to explain the basics of [Aldmeri](Lore_Aldmer.md) religion.<sup>[[8]](#cite_note-TM-8)</sup> The Emperor employed a battlemage named Hethoth and an [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md) mage named Carecalmo.<sup>[[9]](#cite_note-RTBS-9)</sup><sup>[[10]](#cite_note-MWL-10)</sup> With his imperial consort, [Thonica](Lore_Thonica.md), he fathered a son named [Uriel](Lore_Uriel_VI.md) in [3E 285](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_285). In [3E 288](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_288), Uriel V, with his morganatic spouse, fathered twin daughters named [Morihatha](Lore_Morihatha.md) and [Eloisa](Lore_Eloisa_Septim.md).<sup>[[3]](#cite_note-BHOTE4-3)</sup>

### Invasion of Akavir
After capturing Black Harbor, Uriel V ordered extensive renovations to the port to serve as the marshaling point and main supply hub for the Empire to invade [Akavir](Lore_Akavir.md). At this time, he also began the construction of the many large, ocean-going transports that were needed for the crossing to Akavir, which the [Imperial Navy](Lore_Imperial_Navy.md) previously lacked. After Esroniet was yielded to Imperial authority in 3E 284, the Emperor devoted his full attention to planning the Akavir campaign. Naval expeditions were dispatched in 3E 285 and [3E 286](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_286) to scout the sea lanes and coastlands of Akavir, and various Imperial intelligence agents were employed to gather information. Based on the gathered data, the [kingdom of the Tsaesci](Lore_Tsaesci_(place).md) in southwestern Akavir was selected as the invasion's initial target.<sup>[[6]](#cite_note-RDI-6)</sup>

While reconnaissance was conducted on Akavir, Uriel V assembled his expeditionary force. A new Far East Fleet was created for the campaign, which was reportedly the most powerful fleet ever assembled in the history of Tamriel. The [Fifth](Lore_Fifth_Legion.md), [Seventh](Lore_Seventh_Legion.md), [Tenth](Lore_Tenth_Legion.md), and Fourteenth Legions were selected for the initial landing, with the [Ninth](Lore_Ninth_Legion.md) and Seventeenth Legions to follow as reinforcements.<sup>[[6]](#cite_note-RDI-6)</sup>

The Expeditionary Force left Black Harbor on 23 Rain's Hand, 3E 288, and landed in Akavir after six weeks at sea. The force landed at a small, recently abandoned [Tsaesci](Lore_Tsaesci_(race).md) port town at the mouth of a large river that they renamed [Septimia](Lore_Septimia.md), the first colony of the new [Imperial Province of Akavir](Lore_Imperial_Province_of_Akavir.md). While the engineers fortified the town and expanded the port facilities to serve the Far East Fleet, the Emperor marched inland with two legions. The Emperor and his legions met no resistance and took the next city upriver, which was also recently abandoned. The city was refounded as [Ionith](Lore_Ionith.md), and Uriel V established his headquarters there, being much larger than Septimia and better located to dominate the surrounding countryside.<sup>[[6]](#cite_note-RDI-6)</sup>

After capturing Ionith, Uriel V sent out envoys to try to contact the Tsaesci king or ruler, but his messengers never returned. The Emperor believed at this time that the Empire's power could overawe the Tsaesci, and they might secure a province by negotiation without serious fighting. Uriel V and the [Elder Council](Lore_Elder_Council.md) agreed that, due to the complete abandonment of the conquered area by its native population, colonists were needed to work the fields so that the Expeditionary Force would not have to rely entirely on the Far East Fleet for supplies.<sup>[[6]](#cite_note-RDI-6)</sup>

The civilian colonists and their supplies started arriving in Septimia in mid-Hearthfire, along with a number of cavalry mounts, which led to a decline in the Tsaesci raids on the two Imperial colonies. Tsaesci emissaries also arrived in Ionith, purportedly to begin peace negotiations, and the Expeditionary Force settled in for what was expected to be a quiet winter. At this time, the Elder Council urged Uriel V to return to Tamriel with the fleet to address urgent matters concerning the Empire while the army was in winter quarters; however, he decided to stay in Akavir. This proved to be a good decision, as a large portion of the fleet, including the Emperor's flagship, was destroyed by an early winter storm during the homeward voyage. The unusually prolonged and severe winter storm season of 3E 288- [289](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_289) prevented the fleet from returning to Akavir with additional supplies. This was reported to the Emperor via battlemage, and it was agreed that the Expeditionary Force could survive on their remaining supplies until the spring.<sup>[[6]](#cite_note-RDI-6)</sup>

The Expeditionary Force faced tight rations due to the supply problems and the addition of thousands of civilians. These problems were further exacerbated when the Tsaesci raiders returned in force and began harassing any foraging and scouting parties outside the walls of Septimia and Ionith. A large entourage of Tsaesci arrived at Ionith on 5 Sun's Dawn, 3E 289, claiming to have a peace offer from the Tsaesci king. That night, the Tsaesci killed the guards that were stationed at one of the city gates and let in a group of their comrades who were waiting outside the city walls. The Tsaesci's attempt to assassinate the Emperor was thwarted by the vigilance of the Tenth Legion troopers guarding his palace. Once the alarm was raised, the Tsaesci inside the city were hunted down and killed to the last man. This unsurprisingly marked the end of negotiations between the Emperor and the Tsaesci.<sup>[[6]](#cite_note-RDI-6)</sup>

The supply fleet departed late from Black Harbor due to prolonged bad weather, finally leaving the port in early Second Seed; however, it was severely battered by storms and limped into Septimia eight weeks later. Because of the increasingly desperate supply situation in Akavir, the Emperor dispatched most of his battlemage corps with the fleet to assist it in weathering the storms, which seemed likely to continue all summer. At this time, the Elder Council urged Uriel V to abandon the invasion and to return to Tamriel with the Expeditionary Force, but he again refused, noting that the fleet was no longer large enough to transport all four legions at once.<sup>[[6]](#cite_note-RDI-6)</sup>

In mid-Sun's Height, the Emperor marched out of Ionith, leaving only small garrisons to hold the cities. He had learned that the Tsaesci were massing their forces on the other side of a mountain range to the north, and he intended to destroy their army before it could gather full strength and capture their supplies. The rapid advance of Uriel V and his forces seemingly caught the Tsaesci off guard. The Expeditionary Force crossed the mountains and launched an assault on their camp, defeating the Tsaesci army and capturing its leader, who was a noble of some sort. However, the Emperor was soon forced to retreat, and the legions suffered heavily during their retreat to Ionith. After the retreat to Ionith, the Tsaesci laid siege to the city, cutting it off from the small garrison at Septimia, which was also besieged.<sup>[[6]](#cite_note-RDI-6)</sup>

The Elder Council's last contact with the Emperor occurred in early Frostfall. By Evening Star, the council was extremely worried about the situation in Akavir and ordered the Far East Fleet, which had been sent to Black Harbor for reinforcements and supplies, to sail regardless of the risk. Despite the continued storms, the fleet managed to press on to Akavir. Hope was raised when contact was made with the Emperor's battlemage, who reported that Ionith still held out. Plans were quickly laid out for the Expeditionary Force to break out of Ionith and fall back to Septimia, where the fleet would meet them. This was the last direct contact with the Expeditionary Force. The fleet arrived in Septimia in [3E 290](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_290) to find its garrison under assault from a large Tsaesci army. The battlemages with the fleet held back the enemy long enough for the survivors to embark and the fleet to withdraw.<sup>[[6]](#cite_note-RDI-6)</sup>

The few survivors of the Expeditionary Force who reached Septimia reported how Uriel V had led the army out of Ionith at night two days earlier, successfully breaking through the enemy lines but then being surrounded by overwhelming forces on the road to Septimia. They reported that Uriel V and the Tenth Legion made a final stand, allowing a remnant of the Fourteenth Legion to reach Septimia. Two survivors of the Tenth Legion confirmed that they saw Uriel V die, cut down by enemy arrows as he rallied the Tenth Legion's shield wall.<sup>[[6]](#cite_note-RDI-6)</sup>

### Aftermath and Legacy
After his death, Uriel V was succeeded by his five-year-old son, Uriel VI.<sup>[[3]](#cite_note-BHOTE4-3)</sup><sup>[[4]](#cite_note-TTET-4)</sup><sup>[[11]](#cite_note-TDC-11)</sup> Because Uriel VI was too young to rule in his own right, following his coronation in 3E 290, Thonica was given a restricted regency until he reached his majority.<sup>[[3]](#cite_note-BHOTE4-3)</sup>

Although the invasion of Akavir is usually regarded as a disaster, the commission that reviewed it believed that Uriel V did not act recklessly or imprudently. However, the loss of the Expeditionary Force left the Empire in a dangerously weak position relative to the provinces.<sup>[[6]](#cite_note-RDI-6)</sup> Despite his death in Akavir, Uriel V is considered a military genius and second only to [Tiber Septim](Lore_Tiber_Septim.md) as one of the greatest warrior emperors of Tamriel.<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-BHOTE3-1)</sup><sup>[[2]](#cite_note-PGE3O-2)</sup>

## Notes
- According to [Todd Howard](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/General:Todd_Howard), one of the original design drafts for *[Skyrim](Skyrim_Skyrim.md)* involved Uriel V returning with his army of dragons from Akavir to retake his throne.<sup>[[UOL 1]](#cite_note-Todd-12)</sup>

## References
1. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-BHOTE3_1-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-BHOTE3_1-1)***</sup><sup>***[c](#cite_ref-BHOTE3_1-2)***</sup><sup>***[d](#cite_ref-BHOTE3_1-3)***</sup><sup>***[e](#cite_ref-BHOTE3_1-4)***</sup><sup>***[f](#cite_ref-BHOTE3_1-5)***</sup><sup>***[g](#cite_ref-BHOTE3_1-6)***</sup><sup>***[h](#cite_ref-BHOTE3_1-7)***</sup><sup>***[i](#cite_ref-BHOTE3_1-8)***</sup><sup>***[j](#cite_ref-BHOTE3_1-9)***</sup><sup>***[k](#cite_ref-BHOTE3_1-10)***</sup> [*Brief History of the Empire v 3*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Brief_History_of_the_Empire_v_3) — [Stronach k'Thojj III](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Stronach_k.27Thojj_III)
2. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-PGE3O_2-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-PGE3O_2-1)***</sup> [*Pocket Guide to the Empire, 3rd Edition: Other Lands*](Lore_Pocket_Guide_to_the_Empire,_3rd_Edition_Other_Lands.md) — [Imperial Geographical Society](Lore_Imperial_Geographical_Society.md), [3E 432](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_432)
3. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-BHOTE4_3-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-BHOTE4_3-1)***</sup><sup>***[c](#cite_ref-BHOTE4_3-2)***</sup><sup>***[d](#cite_ref-BHOTE4_3-3)***</sup><sup>***[e](#cite_ref-BHOTE4_3-4)***</sup> [*Brief History of the Empire v 4*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Brief_History_of_the_Empire_v_4) — [Stronach k'Thojj III](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Stronach_k.27Thojj_III)
4. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-TTET_4-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-TTET_4-1)***</sup> [*The Third Era Timeline*](Lore_The_Third_Era_Timeline.md) — [Jaspus Ignateous](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Jaspus_Ignateous)
5. [^](#cite_ref-PGE3S_5-0) [*Pocket Guide to the Empire, 3rd Edition: The Throat of the World: Skyrim*](Lore_Pocket_Guide_to_the_Empire,_3rd_Edition_Skyrim.md) — [Imperial Geographical Society](Lore_Imperial_Geographical_Society.md), [3E 432](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_432)
6. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-RDI_6-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-RDI_6-1)***</sup><sup>***[c](#cite_ref-RDI_6-2)***</sup><sup>***[d](#cite_ref-RDI_6-3)***</sup><sup>***[e](#cite_ref-RDI_6-4)***</sup><sup>***[f](#cite_ref-RDI_6-5)***</sup><sup>***[g](#cite_ref-RDI_6-6)***</sup><sup>***[h](#cite_ref-RDI_6-7)***</sup><sup>***[i](#cite_ref-RDI_6-8)***</sup><sup>***[j](#cite_ref-RDI_6-9)***</sup><sup>***[k](#cite_ref-RDI_6-10)***</sup><sup>***[l](#cite_ref-RDI_6-11)***</sup> [*Report: Disaster at Ionith*](Lore_Report__Disaster_at_Ionith.md) — [Lord Pottreid](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Lord_Pottreid), Chairman
7. [^](#cite_ref-FOA_7-0) [*Fragment: On Artaeum*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Fragment__On_Artaeum) — [Taurce il-Anselma](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Taurce_il-Anselma), [3E 400](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_400)
8. [^](#cite_ref-TM_8-0) [*The Monomyth*](Lore_The_Monomyth.md)
9. [^](#cite_ref-RTBS_9-0) [*Response to Bero's Speech*](Lore_Response_to_Bero%27s_Speech.md) — [Malviser, Battlemage](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Malviser.2C_Battlemage)
10. [^](#cite_ref-MWL_10-0) [Lalatia Varian](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Morrowind:Lalatia_Varian)'s dialogue in *[Morrowind](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Morrowind:Morrowind)*
11. [^](#cite_ref-TDC_11-0) Tamriel's Timeline, *[The Daggerfall Chronicles](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Books:The_Daggerfall_Chronicles)* — Ronald Wartow

**Note**: The following references are considered to be [unofficial sources](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/General:Unofficial_Lore). They are included to round off this article and may not be authoritative or conclusive.

1. [^](#cite_ref-Todd_12-0) [Todd Howard *PAX East 2019* Interview](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/General:Todd_Howard_PAX_East_2019_Interview)