# Places D

[Overview](Lore_Places.md) | [A](Lore_Places_A.md) [B](Lore_Places_B.md) [C](Lore_Places_C.md) D [E](Lore_Places_E.md) [F](Lore_Places_F.md) [G](Lore_Places_G.md) [H](Lore_Places_H.md) [I](Lore_Places_I.md) [J](Lore_Places_J.md) [K](Lore_Places_K.md) [L](Lore_Places_L.md) [M](Lore_Places_M.md) [N](Lore_Places_N.md) [O](Lore_Places_O.md) [P](Lore_Places_P.md) [Q](Lore_Places_Q.md) [R](Lore_Places_R.md) [S](Lore_Places_S.md) [T](Lore_Places_T.md) [U](Lore_Places_U.md) [V](Lore_Places_V.md) [W](Lore_Places_W.md) [X](Lore_Places_X.md) [Y](Lore_Places_Y.md) [Z](Lore_Places_Z.md) | [Maps](Lore_Maps.md)
---

## Daenia
[Daenia](Lore_Daenia.md) is a forested region in western [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md), in the southern part of [Glenumbra](Lore_Glenumbra.md). It borders [Cambray Hills](Lore_Cambray_Hills.md) to the northeast. The region is home to the city of [Daggerfall](Lore_Daggerfall.md). It is also known for the culture of quests, where young people of the lower classes take on heroic tasks in order to feel more like nobility. There have even been cases where a task was so great, the person completing it became a noble themselves. Because of this ability to move up in social class, the people of Daenia are fiercely independent. The region is also home to the [Beldama Wyrd](Lore_Beldama_Wyrd.md), as well as several witch covens.

## Daenia (duchy)
[Daenia](Lore_Daenia_(duchy).md) is a region located in west-central [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md), in the greater [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md) region of northwest [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). Daenia is mostly comprised of woodland and it is the home of the [Beldama Coven](Lore_Beldama_Coven.md), an ancient gathering of [wyrd](Lore_Wyrd.md) that worship [Jephre](Lore_Jephre.md) the Singer. They gather in the north-central part of the region, near Greenham Manor.

## Daggerfall
[Daggerfall](Lore_Daggerfall.md) (also called **Daggerfall City**) is the capital city of the eponymous [kingdom](Lore_Daggerfall_(kingdom).md) in [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md), as well as the largest city in the province's western region, [Glenumbra](Lore_Glenumbra.md). It is found on a giant bluff overlooking the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md). Daggerfall is one of the oldest cities in the province and by virtue of its age, prosperity, and prominence, it was considered the de-facto capital of High Rock by the [Third Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md). The city also wields vast cultural influence across southern High Rock and its people have an obsession with the past and quest for glory.

## Daggerfall (kingdom)
[Daggerfall](Lore_Daggerfall_(kingdom).md) is one of the nine historical [Breton kingdoms](Lore_Kingdoms_of_High_Rock.md) in the province of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md), located in the southwest portion of the province, on the north half of the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md). Throughout much of history, Daggerfall was one of the largest kingdoms in High Rock, from the early First Era before the rise of its rival, [Wayrest](Lore_Wayrest_(kingdom).md) and its incorporation into the [Third Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md), to the turn of the Third Era, where it was one of the province's five kingdoms. It is named after its capital city, [Daggerfall](Lore_Daggerfall.md).

## Dagon Fel
[Dagon Fel](Lore_Dagon_Fel.md) (sometimes spelled **Dagon Fell**) is the only settlement on the [Sheogorad](Lore_Sheogorad.md) archipelago, in the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). The town has historically been occupied by the [Nords](Lore_Nord.md) of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), ever since the ancient invasion of Morrowind by the [Nordic Empire](Lore_First_Empire_of_the_Nords.md). It was mostly populated by fishermen and as the central settlement in the region, many [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) scholars and adventurers came here to explore the [Dwemer ruins](Lore_Dwemer_Ruins.md). It is built atop of the ruins of a [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md) city known as Mzuleft.

## Dak'fron
[Dak'fron](Lore_Dak%27fron.md) is a dry region within north-central [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md) in the greater [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md) region, dominated by [Redguards](Lore_Redguard.md). It is one of the most barren wastelands in the province, and [giant scorpions](Lore_Scorpion.md) migrate from the "blighted Dak'fron" to the marginally lusher Alik'r Desert as an invasive species. Dak'fron borders the [Alik'r Desert](Lore_Alik%27r.md) to the northwest, [Santaki](Lore_Santaki_(county).md) to the north, and the [Dragontail Mountains](Lore_Dragontail_Mountains.md) to the northeast.

The Sisters of Kykos are found in Dak'fron and the dominant vampire bloodline is the [Anthotis](Lore_Anthotis.md). Dak'fron is known for its fine [amethysts](Lore_Amethyst.md).

After the events of the [Warp in the West](Lore_Warp_in_the_West.md), Dak'fron became part of the [Kingdom of Sentinel](Lore_Sentinel_(kingdom).md). Circa [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433), Ayaan-si, High Prophet of [Elinhir](Lore_Elinhir.md), had called upon the [Crowns](Lore_Crowns.md) of the north to rebel against [Lhotun](Lore_Lhotun.md), and had financed a number of forays against the borders in Dak'fron.

## Dark Fissure
[Dark Fissure](Lore_Dark_Fissure.md) is an isolated cave found deep in the [Valus Mountains](Lore_Valus_Mountains.md), within the province of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md).

The Dark Fissure contains one of the four mysterious altars in Cyrodiil that are necessary in the creation of a [Black Soul Gem](Lore_Black_Soul_Gem.md), a phenomenon known as the *"Shade of the Revenant."* The Dark Fissure is found in the smaller region of Mist Morrow Vale.

Like various other natural caverns in [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md), it is theorized to have served as a capillary for the living body of [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md), and once pulsed with the living essence of the [Aedra](Lore_Aedra.md) who created it.

## Darkarn River
The [Darkarn River](Lore_Darkarn_River.md) is a body of water found in the north-central parts of the province of [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md). The stream is found most far north in [The Rim](Lore_The_Rim.md) near the Shadow Dance Temple,. The river has its name loaned to the village of **Darkarn Place**, which is found near the city-state of [Alabaster](Lore_Alabaster.md).

## Darkhollow
[Darkhollow](Lore_Darkhollow.md) is a [dwarven ruin](Lore_Dwemer_Ruins.md) located high in the hills of [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md), beneath the mountain in the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). Its original Dwemeri name is unknown, but the [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md) dubbed it Darkhollow. It was abandoned in [1E 700](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_700) when its original [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md) inhabitants mysteriously disappeared.

According to the account of the Reachfolk scout Markor, whose words were later written down by the traveling scribe [Cassia Volcatia](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Cassia_Volcatia) the Darkhollow was usually avoided by the Reachfolk inhabitants of the region. At some point during the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md), during the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), in the years leading to [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), he and his companion Esana explored the ruins. While exploring the Dwemeri ruin Esana heard loud music beneath the mountain, likened to the storm, brass bird singing, the tuneless symphony of cogs and rock, and the hymn of steam and fire. The music eventually enthralled Esana, who became obsessed with it. She began to explore the ruin every day, forsaking her duties as clan scout. Soon the clan's witchmother forbade all travel to Darkhollow for both Markor and Esana. The next day, risking the wrath of the witchmother and exile from the clan, Esana left for Darkhollow one last time. Markor followed her despite their clan's leader's decision, hoping to find her, but his search ended in tragedy. He found nothing but a simple message from his friend that read "I found it." Esana was never seen again.

Markor's account was later published by Cassia Volcatia under the name *The Music Beneath the Mountain* in her collection of the Reachfolk tales. Although the elements of the published story may be fictional, the ruin of Darkhollow is real.

## Darkwater Crossing
[Darkwater Crossing](Lore_Darkwater_Crossing.md) is a settlement located along the banks of the [Darkwater River](Lore_Darkwater_River.md) in southern [Eastmarch](Lore_Eastmarch.md).

The area was first settled during the time of the [Ebonheart Pact](Lore_Ebonheart_Pact.md), when a group of [Argonian](Lore_Argonian.md) migrants came from the west to settle at [Fort Amol](Lore_Fort_Amol.md). The town was not big enough to absorb them, so instead, they settled at Darkwater Crossing. Despite being an Argonian village, it was built using [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) architecture. At some point, a [Redguard](Lore_Redguard.md) named Asmalah the Caller came to the village with his sick wife. The village healer, a Dreamwalker named Stormy-Eyes, attempted to use his powers to cure her, but instead, his methods resulted in her death. Circa [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), Asmalah got his revenge by surrounding the village with blood, causing [trolls](Lore_Troll.md) to attack. The surviving Argonians fled to a nearby cave, and it was hoped that the town could be retaken after the death of the trolls' leader, Death-In-Winter.

The area was re-settled in the [Fourth Era](Lore_Fourth_Era.md) when Goldenrock Mine was opened after a Nord woman named Annekke Crag-Jumper discovered [corundum](Lore_Corundum.md) deposits nearby. In [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201), during the [Stormcloak Rebellion](Lore_Stormcloak_Rebellion.md), [Ulfric Stormcloak](Lore_Ulfric_Stormcloak.md) was captured near the settlement in an [Imperial](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md) ambush before being taken to [Helgen](Lore_Helgen.md) for execution. The Rebellion had a bad effect on Darkwater Crossing, with soldiers passing through constantly and the miners only scraping by.

## Darkwater River
[Darkwater River](Lore_Darkwater_River.md), or simply **the Darkwater**, is a river in eastern [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) connecting [Lake Geir](Lore_Lake_Geir.md) to the [White River](Lore_White_River.md). Lake Geir drains into it at the western end of [the Rift](Lore_The_Rift.md). The river flows northeast into [Eastmarch](Lore_Eastmarch.md), cascading down the famous cliff which divides the two [holds](Lore_Hold.md). After this series of pools and waterfalls, the river bends northwest, and merges with the White River a few miles downstream, south-southwest of [Windhelm](Lore_Windhelm.md) and west of the famous fetid swamps of Eastmarch. Forts, ruins, caves, and major roads line its banks. The fishing is said to be good. A large tributary flows separately from Lake Geir. It passes north through [Ivarstead](Lore_Ivarstead.md), then curves northeast and creates its own series of waterfalls down the cliff, then connects with Darkwater River in Eastmarch, which then merges shortly after with the White River and terminates.

## Dasek Moor
[Dasek Moor](Lore_Dasek_Moor.md) is a ruined underground fort located along the [Gold Road](Lore_Gold_Road.md) just south of [Kvatch](Lore_Kvatch.md), on the border between the [Gold Coast](Lore_Gold_Coast.md) and [West Weald](Lore_West_Weald.md) regions of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). On the surface, the fort is little more than a crumbling entrance. However, it contains an extensive underground complex, including ancient tombs and a living quarters known as the Maleboge.

The fort was already a crumbling ruin by [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), at which time the underground passages were sealed off. The ruins were regularly used as a secret meeting place by Count [Carolus Aquilarios](Lore_Carolus_Aquilarios.md), who had a campsite at the entrance to the ruins, and was also using the ruins of to spy on the Order of the Hour. Count Carolus used this campsite when he met with the [Dark Brotherhood](Lore_Dark_Brotherhood.md) to reveal that the mysterious [Black Dragon](Lore_Black_Dragon.md) who was targeting the Brotherhood was in fact the First Sword of the [Order of the Hour](Lore_Order_of_the_Hour.md), and that the old Enclave of the Hourglass was being made into a headquarters. The Brotherhood subsequently decimated the Order and eliminated the Black Dragon in an act of revenge, neutralizing one of the Count's major political opponents in the region.

By [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433), Dasek Moor was home to a marauder gang. However, the fort's tombs were infested with undead, and several marauders were killed while attempting to clear the lower levels.

## Dawnstar
[Dawnstar](Lore_Dawnstar.md) (also known as **Danstrar**) is a settlement on the northern coast of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), and the [hold](Lore_Hold.md) capital of [the Pale](Lore_The_Pale.md). It was once a garrison town, which served as an exile post due to the cold harsh climate and notorious gales. The settlement seemingly got its name due to its reputation for "greeting the sun as it begins its journey". It has historically been troubled by the [Ice Tribes](Lore_Ice_Tribes.md) and [Gehenoth](Lore_Gehenoth.md). Dawnstar has a history of being the site of battles that have crippled the fate of the Empire.

## Dead Men's Respite
[Dead Men's Respite](Lore_Dead_Men%27s_Respite.md), occasionally spelled **Dead Man's Respite** and also known as the **Bards Tomb**, is an ancient Nordic barrow with a [Word Wall](Lore_Word_Walls.md) found in the southern plains of [Hjaalmarch](Lore_Hjaalmarch.md), in the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). Located near the banks of the [River Hjaal](Lore_River_Hjaal.md), the ruins serve as the burial place of the former High King of Skyrim, [Olaf One-Eye](Lore_Olaf_One-Eye.md).

## The Deadlands
The [Deadlands](Lore_Deadlands.md) are a Daedric realm of Oblivion created and ruled over by the Daedric Prince of Destruction, Mehrunes Dagon. The embodiment of its creator's sphere, the dimension is fraught with natural disasters and destructive change. The area known as the Burn is covered by an ocean of lava, scattered with scorched volcanic islands and ruined structures. Many lesser Daedra roam the realm freely, but Dremora dominate the hierarchy. The Sever is a region of the Deadlands with light soil covering jagged rock with sulfur pools throughout, fierce winds, and constant lightning storms. Destructive tornadoes and extremes in temperature characterize the region. The capital of the Deadlands is known as Destruction's Solace.

Although mortals have attempted to map the Deadlands, the realm's many rivers of fire reverse course every few hundred years, rendering these maps useless. The realm's unformed chaotic creatia appears as quivering pools of lava.

The force of Change, one of the Eleven Forces, flows strongly in the Deadlands, as all aspects of Dagon's sphere are rooted in Change. The currents flow so strongly that one who attempts to tap into change within the realm runs the risk of being swept away, and entering a synchroseisiac state, becoming out of sync with reality and being scattered across time and space. Thus the realm is especially suited for those wishing to study that force. Some Daedra that reside in the Deadlands have thus learned how to read the flow of Change, granting them such clarity that they are practically [precognitive](Lore_Sight.md).

## Deadlight
[Deadlight](Lore_Deadlight.md) is a shattered plane of [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md), said to have been destroyed in the ancient past by [Mehrunes Dagon](Lore_Mehrunes_Dagon.md).

According to legend, the realm was once the domain of a forgotten [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Princes.md) who earned Dagon's wrath. In response, Dagon made war upon the Prince, destroying their home. Nothing remained of the realm but a shattered fragment, a place illuminated only by a green, ghostly [aurora](Lore_Aurora.md). The realm possess a ruined keep, which stood beneath a starless sky. The plane itself is devoid of life and energy, which is unusual for a realm of Oblivion. The surrounding landscape consists of jagged stone peaks, dotted with lightning rods and flora typical of the [Deadlands](Lore_Deadlands.md) such as [bloodgrass](Lore_Bloodgrass.md).

The only known entrance to Deadlight is a crumbling [portal dais](Lore_Portal_Dais.md) called the Western Gate, located in a region of the Deadlands known as the Burn.

## Deeping Drome
The [Deeping Drome](Lore_Deeping_Drome.md) is a [dwarven ruin](Lore_Dwemer_Ruins.md) located underneath the mountains in the northernmost parts of the [Bangkorai](Lore_Bangkorai.md) in the province of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md), east of [Wrothgar](Lore_Wrothgar.md) and west of [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md).

As a Dwarven settlement, it was abandoned in [1E 700](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_700) when its original [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md) inhabitants mysteriously disappeared. Scholars of Dwemer were unable to determine the function of the mysterious Deeping Drome.

As of [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582) the [Circle of Champions](Lore_Circle_of_Champions.md) began using the ruins to host dangerous gladiator battles to the death. Fighters from all three sides of the [Three Banners War](Lore_Three_Banners_War.md) came to the Deeping Drome battleground to fight for the glory of the Fire Drakes, Pit Daemons, and Storm Lords arena teams. During that time it was described as "claustrophobic pathways filled with the bones of would-be champions". It was made up of large fungi-covered cavern formations surrounding a large metallic sphere in the center. Deeping Drome also consisted of slopes and small skeleton-filled tunnels beneath the central platform.

## Deepscorn Hollow
[Deepscorn Hollow](Lore_Deepscorn_Hollow.md) is a hidden underground lair located beneath a small islet in [Topal Bay](Lore_Topal_Bay.md), off the coast of [Cyrodiil](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Cyrodiil). The island is located within the [Blackwood](Lore_Blackwood.md) region, south of the swamps of [Bogwater](Lore_Bogwater.md) and far southeast of the city of [Leyawiin](Lore_Leyawiin.md). It was originally built in the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md) as a temple to [Sithis](Lore_Sithis.md) by the ancient [Nibenese](Lore_Nibenese.md).

## Deepmire
[Deepmire](Lore_Deepmire.md) is an area in the [Murkmire](Lore_Murkmire.md) region of [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md), located on a largely inaccessible plateau in the north-northeastern corner of the region. By [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), the Deepmire was largely uninhabited and considered both dangerous and cursed. It is believed that the presence of [Sithis](Lore_Sithis.md) is strong in Deepmire and thus it is best to avoid the area.

## Deepwallow
[Deepwallow](Lore_Deepwallow.md) is a village in the [Dementia](Lore_Dementia_(place).md) region of the [Shivering Isles](Lore_Shivering_Isles.md). It is located on the [Heretic's Horn](Lore_Heretic%27s_Horn.md), along the coast of a marshy lagoon south of [New Sheoth](Lore_New_Sheoth.md). It is connected by bridge to the Low Road, diverging from it at the gates of [Crucible](Lore_Crucible.md).

Circa [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433), the settlement was home to only three individuals, following the suicide of Gadeneri Ralvel. She was survived by her brother, Erver Devani, who became embitter over his sister's fate, her [soul](Lore_Souls.md) doomed to haunt the [Hill of Suicides](Lore_Hill_of_Suicides.md). The [Hero of Kvatch](Lore_Hero_of_Kvatch.md) recovered Gadeneri's scattered skull from [Knifepoint Hollow](Lore_Knifepoint_Hollow.md) and brought it to her on the Hill of Suicides, freeing her from that fate.

## Deepwoods
[Deepwoods](Lore_Deepwoods.md) is a village located east of [Velyn Harbor](Lore_Velyn_Harbor.md), in the [Broken Coast](Lore_Broken_Coast.md) region of [Malabal Tor](Lore_Malabal_Tor.md) in [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md). It is a [Bosmer](Lore_Bosmer.md) village, consisting entirely of [graht-oak](Lore_Graht-oak.md) pod homes. The village was settled around the shrine of [the Green Lady](Lore_The_Green_Lady.md), a sacred tree which is said to be the embodiment of the first Green Lady. Some believe that the tree marks the grave of the first Green Lady, who perished prior to the [Green Pact](Lore_Green_Pact.md); others believe that the tree is the first Green Lady herself. This sacred site is blessed by Y'ffre and is regularly visited by pilgrims. It is notable for being the birthplace of many incarnations of the Green Lady, as well as many sacred sites associated with the early lives of the Green Ladies.

## Dejasyte
The [Dejasyte](Lore_Dejasyte.md) is a desert made up of monochrome grey and tan boulders and dunes, located somewhere in the southeast midlands of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md).<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_nb1)</sup>

## Dellese Isles
The [Dellese Isles](Lore_Dellese_Isles.md) (or **Dellesia**) are a region of islands found within [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md). They are considered one of the major lands (along with [Greater Bretony](Lore_Greater_Bretony.md), the [Bjoulsae River](Lore_Bjoulsae_River.md) [tribes](Lore_River_Horse_Bretons.md), and the [Western Reach](Lore_Western_Reach.md)) that the clans of the province inhabit. They are related to the former Dallesian peninsula.

## Delodiil
[Delodiil](Lore_Delodiil.md) was an [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) city in [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md)'s [Heartland](Lore_Heartlands.md) during the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md), populated mostly by Ayleidic worshippers of [Meridia](Lore_Meridia.md). It came into notable conflict with the nearby mercenary city of [Abagarlas](Lore_Abagarlas.md), which was ruled by Ayleidic worshippers of [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md). The city of Delodiil vanished during their war, and is believed to have been transported to [Coldharbour](Lore_Coldharbour.md) as the **[Hollow City](Lore_Hollow_City.md)**. Despite these things, Delodiil was recorded as an active [Colovian kingdom](Lore_Colovia.md) during the [Imperial Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md) of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md)'s [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md).

## Dementia
[Dementia](Lore_Dementia_(place).md) is a region of [the Shivering Isles](Lore_Shivering_Isles.md) located in the marshy southern lowlands of the main landmass. It represents the dark and violent side of Sheogorath, and is mostly made up of swamps and forests of dead trees. The Low Road and Pinnacle Road are the two main routes through the region. Two peninsulas can be found here: the Heretic's Horn and the Madgod's Boot. The marshes of Shallow Grave and the [Hill of Suicides](Lore_Hill_of_Suicides.md) are also important landmarks.

The villages of [Deepwallow](Lore_Deepwallow.md) and [Fellmoor](Lore_Fellmoor.md) offer relative safety from the monsters that roam the swamps. The ruins of [Vitharn](Lore_Vitharn.md) are a place of ill repute, once populated by souls cursed by Sheogorath. The Halls of [Pinnacle Rock](Lore_Pinnacle_Rock.md) contain the Wellspring of the [Mazken](Lore_Mazken.md). The lawbreakers of the region are imprisoned in the root tunnels of Corpserot Passage. [Knifepoint Hollow](Lore_Knifepoint_Hollow.md) and [Xedilian](Lore_Xedilian.md) are also located here. The Chateau of the Ravenous Rodent was Sheogorath's "family estate" and is located in the darkest part of Dementia.

## Desert Wind Adeptorium
[Desert Wind Adeptorium](Lore_Desert_Wind_Adeptorium.md) is an ancient temple found in the region of [Anequina](Lore_Anequina.md), within the province of [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md). The Desert Wind Adeptorium's original name is long forgotten, built to protect those from the rising power of [Darloc Brae](Lore_Darloc_Brae.md), known as the Golden Beast of Anequina. It is now the home of The Order of the Desert Wind (or the *"Zhan Khaj"* in [Ta'agra](Lore_Ta%27agra.md)), one of the monastic orders that dot the landscape of Elsweyr, known to practice a specific form of [claw-dance](Lore_Claw-Dances.md) known as the *Desert Wind*. The adeptorium hosts a subterranean cavern with various ruins known as the **Desert Wind Caverns**.

## Deshaan
[Deshaan](Lore_Deshaan.md) (also called the **Deshaan Plain** or **the Deshaan**) is a broad, fertile plain in the southern mainland of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). Most of the Morrowind population is gathered in the high uplands and fertile [Thir River](Lore_Thir_River.md) valleys of central Morrowind, in and around Deshaan. It borders [Stonefalls](Lore_Stonefalls.md) and the [Fungal Lowlands](Lore_Fungal_Lowlands.md) to the north, [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) to the west, as well as the Dejasyte desert, [Shadowfen](Lore_Shadowfen.md), and [Thornmarsh](Lore_Thornmarsh.md) regions of [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md) to the south. It is composed of three smaller regions: [Redolent Loam](Lore_Redolent_Loam.md) in the west, [Lagomere](Lore_Lagomere.md) in the center, and [Siltreen](Lore_Siltreen.md) in the east.

The region is mainly composed of fertile plains and lush fungal forests which slope down and merge with [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md) farther south, with sizable swamps making up the southeastern part of the region.. The local [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) take advantage of the exceptionally fertile black soil, cultivating [saltrice](Lore_Saltrice.md) and cash crops, and breeding [kwama](Lore_Kwama.md) in deep mines for their eggs. Like elsewhere in Morrowind, [Daedric](Lore_Daedra.md) ruins, [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md) ruins, and [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) tombs dot the landscape. The western area of Redolent Loam is home to the city of [Narsis](Lore_Narsis.md), situated on the southern banks of [Lake Hlaalu](Lore_Lake_Hlaalu.md). Deshaan's largest city, [Mournhold](Lore_Mournhold.md), sits in the center of Lagomere, surrounded by [Lake Amaya](Lore_Lake_Amaya_(Deshaan).md). The Vale of the Ghost Snake, a sacred site of the [Ashlander](Lore_Ashlander.md) [Mabrigash](Lore_Mabrigash.md) tribe, lies in the southeastern swamps. The eastern region, Siltreen, contains a large shrine devoted to [Saint Veloth](Lore_Saint_Veloth.md), where his relics are kept. The eastern town of Selfora is home to the [Tree of Summerset](Lore_Tree_of_Summerset.md), a sacred tree said to have been planted by Veloth from seeds taken from his homeland.

### Desolation's End
[Desolation's End](Lore_Desolation%27s_End.md) was a small pocket realm of [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md), created in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582) by a member of the [Bloodthorn Cult](Lore_Bloodthorn_Cult.md) called Lord Velian.

It was created through [necromantic](Lore_Necromancy.md) ritual after the villagers of [Eagle's Brook](Lore_Eagle%27s_Brook.md), in the [Cambray Hills](Lore_Cambray_Hills.md) region of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md), were turned into [zombies](Lore_Zombie.md). The realm resembled a nightmarish [Daedric ruin](Lore_Daedric_Ruins.md) covered in glowing red glyphs and surrounded by lava. The ruin's only inhabitants were [banekin](Lore_Banekin.md) and Velian's shade.

The local mage, Merien Sellan, learned of Velian's ritual and entered the pocket realm to stop him. He allowed himself to be willingly captured in order to collapse the plane, killing himself in the process. His son Tamien asked [the Vestige](Lore_The_Vestige.md) to enter the realm and kill Velian, allowing Merien to escape before the collapse but also allowing the cultists to leave with the zombie army by ship. It is unknown if Merien was rescued, although the realm was collapsed regardless.

## Detritus
[Detritus](Lore_Detritus.md) is a ghastly demi-plane of [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md) ruled over by [Hollowjack](Lore_Hollowjack.md), the Lord of Mortal Fears. It has also been described as a "half-world", and is a realm filled with untold horrors. Every year, during the [Witches Festival](Lore_Witches_Festival.md) on the 13<sup>th</sup> of Frost Fall, the portals between [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md) and Detritus open and gruesome items from this realm flood the markets of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). According to an enigmatic and immortal entity known as [the Impresario](Lore_The_Impresario.md), Detritus is a "carving" from the shell of [Hircine](Lore_Hircine.md)'s [Hunting Grounds](Lore_Hunting_Grounds.md).

Hollowjack derives his supernatural power from metaphysically feeding on the fear of mortals, and his realm is dedicated to this singular purpose. Detritus is described as a claustrophobic series of small spaces cluttered and jammed with piles of mortals' lost and broken personal items. Hollowjack frivols there among his collection of shattered memories, categorizing and classing and replaying them to find new vulnerabilities in the mortal mind. There is no outside on Detritus, only room after room of recurring nightmares and internal torments. According to Hollowjack, this is because "mortals fear most what is inside themselves".

## Dhalmora
[Dhalmora](Lore_Dhalmora.md) is a small [Argonian](Lore_Argonian.md) settlement in the marshlands of [Bal Foyen](Lore_Bal_Foyen.md), located along the southern coast of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md)'s [Inner Sea](Lore_Inner_Sea.md). It was founded during the time of the [Ebonheart Pact](Lore_Ebonheart_Pact.md) by emancipated Argonian [slaves](Lore_Slavery.md), who plant [saltrice](Lore_Saltrice.md) and herd [guar](Lore_Guar.md) in the former wastes. It is noted for its mud huts, in contrast to the stone [Dunmeri](Lore_Dunmer.md) architecture otherwise common to the region. Dhalmora is a trading hub, with its own hall of merchants and small dock.

The settlement is protected by the Dunmer-built Fort Zeren to the south as well as a nearby watchtower. The nearest cities are [Davon's Watch](Lore_Davon%27s_Watch.md) along the coast to the west, and Ald Isra on the [Telvanni Peninsula](Lore_Telvanni_Peninsula.md) far to the northeast.

## Diceto River
The [Diceto River](Lore_Diceto_River.md) is a waterway flowing from the mountains south of the city of [Firsthold](Lore_Firsthold.md), through the city to the waters of the [Cape of the Blue Divide](Lore_Cape_of_the_Blue_Divide.md) and to the [Eltheric Ocean](Lore_Eltheric_Ocean.md). It is the great river that passes through the royal parks of Firsthold. The Diceto River flows through the entire city in a Y shape, and [kanthleaf](Lore_Kanthleaf.md) is found all over the riverbank.

## Direfrost Keep
[Direfrost Keep](Lore_Direfrost_Keep.md), also called **Castle Direfrost**, is a [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) castle located in the southern [Velothi Mountains](Lore_Velothi_Mountains.md) of [Eastmarch](Lore_Eastmarch.md), in the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). Direfrost Keep is the ancestral home of the Direfrost Clan of Nordic Witch Hunters, whose lineage goes as far back as recorded history. But as of now, Direfrost Keep has fallen into disrepair as the Direfrost Clan has fallen into obscurity. Deep in the Direfrost Meadhall lies the Direfrost Flame, a sacred fire that gives the Clan the access to commune with their ancestors in [Sovngarde](Lore_Sovngarde.md). The Keep leads to **Direfrost Summit**.

## Diss
**Diss** was a notable settlement active in the late [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). On a map that depicted the [Aldmeri Dominion](Lore_Aldmeri_Dominion.md)'s core territories in [2E 864](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_864), Diss was located on the [Blue Divide](Lore_Cape_of_the_Blue_Divide.md) in northwest [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md) and across from the port-city [Skywatch](Lore_Skywatch.md).<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-LOMap AD-1)</sup>

## Dive Rock
[Dive Rock](Lore_Dive_Rock.md) is a mountain peak located in the [Jerall Mountains](Lore_Jerall_Mountains.md), in the province of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). Dive Rock is reportedly the highest natural observation point across the entire province, with a clear view of the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md) and [Niben Bay](Lore_Niben_Bay.md). Although the tip of Dive Rock provides unparalleled views of the Imperial Province, falling from the edge is lethal. The site is infamous for the deaths of those who have been pushed over the edge. Not only known for its vistas, the peak is also the source of a local legend called the [Horror of Dive Rock](Lore_Horror_of_Dive_Rock.md), a monster that killed dozens of people and even [cattle](Lore_Cow.md).

## Dorsza Pass
[Dorsza Pass](Lore_Dorsza_Pass.md) is a road between the provinces of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md) and [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md). It is a ruined quarry with a large pile of earth created by a primitive, long-dead [Argonian](Lore_Argonian.md) tribe to fortify the border. The pile stretched for miles on end and the pass was overgrown with weeds and twisted gnarled trees. In the summertime, it is fuming with swamp gas. It is notoriously where the Prince of the [Second Empire](Lore_Second_Empire.md), [Juilek](Lore_Juilek.md) was murdered in [1E 2920](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_2920).

## Dourstone Isle
[Dourstone Isle](Lore_Dourstone_Isle.md) is an island located off the coast in southeastern [Glenumbra](Lore_Glenumbra.md) in the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md). An old ruined [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) tower was the only notable landmark of the isle, but as of [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582) the tower was abandoned by its original builders and inhabitants. The tower contained an entrance to the underground complex known as the Dourstone Vault.

The ruins were briefly reoccupied in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582) by the [Worm Cult](Lore_Worm_Cult.md) and the Daedric minions of [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md), acting as a lair within which the Daedra could sacrifice mortal souls to fill the [Mortuum Vivicus](Lore_Mortuum_Vivicus.md). The Daedra were swiftly purged from island by the [Fighters Guild](Lore_Fighters_Guild.md), which was under the effective control of [Meridia](Lore_Meridia.md) at the time.

## Dragon Bridge
[Dragon Bridge](Lore_Dragon_Bridge.md) is a lumber town located along the [Karth River](Lore_Karth_River.md) in the region of [Haafingar](Lore_Haafingar.md), within the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). It is found down the road from [Solitude](Lore_Solitude.md). Dragon Bridge acquires its name from the eponymous Dragon Bridge, an ancient and ornate bridge decorated with [dragon figureheads](Lore_Statues.md). The bridge, which predates the settlement by untold years, spans the [Karth River](Lore_Karth_River.md), connecting the town to the main road through [Hjaalmarch](Lore_Hjaalmarch.md).

## Dragon Glade
[Dragon Glade](Lore_Dragon_Glade.md) (also **Draloris**) is a large town located in the [Indoril District](Lore_House_Indoril.md) of eastern [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md), in the jurisdiction of the Great [House Indoril](Lore_House_Indoril.md). It is northwest of the city of [Necrom](Lore_Necrom.md). The terrain near it is made up of badlands.

## Dragon's Teeth Mountains
The [Dragon's Teeth Mountains](Lore_Dragon%27s_Teeth_Mountains.md) (or simply the **Dragon's Teeth**) is an expansive mountain range that spans a large portion of western [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md), stretching from the frozen summits of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md) all the way to the forests of [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md), passing through [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), and [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md). It was said that the spines of the Dragon's Teeth were visible from the top of the [Crystal Tower](Lore_Crystal_Tower.md) prior to the latter's destruction and [Falinesti](Lore_Falinesti.md) was south of it. The [Druadach Mountains](Lore_Druadach_Mountains.md) in Skyrim, the [Dragontail Mountains](Lore_Dragontail_Mountains.md) in Hammerfell, and the [Colovian Highlands](Lore_Colovian_Highlands.md) in Cyrodiil appear to all form parts of the Dragon's Teeth. "By the Dragon's Teeth" is a common exclamation in Hammerfell.

## Dragonhold
[Dragonhold](Lore_Dragonhold.md) was a small island off the coast of [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md). The island was rich in [aeonstone](Lore_Aeonstone.md) formations, which eventually led to its destruction circa [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582) when it was lifted into the sky by the power harnessed by these stones.

## Dragonhome
[Dragonhome](Lore_Dragonhome.md) is an ancient [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) ruin located in the northwestern corner of the [Karthald](Lore_Karthald.md) Hold that served as a base of the [Dragon Cult](Lore_Dragon_Cult.md) in ancient times, and in [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). It was inhabited by the [Draugr](Lore_Draugr.md) and well guarded by various traps.

## Dragonstar
[Dragonstar](Lore_Dragonstar.md) (historically called **Drangstor**) is a city-state in [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), just south of the border with [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md) and [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). It is located on the foothills of the [Dragontail Mountains](Lore_Dragontail_Mountains.md), in the region of [Craglorn](Lore_Craglorn.md). Like much of Craglorn, Dragonstar is very cosmopolitan compared to the rest of Hammerfell, often inhabited by those deemed "unfit" for life in the [Empire](Lore_Empire.md).In the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), it was a small, fortified settlement dominated by [Nord](Lore_Nord.md) miners and mercenaries. The Dragonstar Caravan Company began operations there, but later moved its headquarters to [Ska'vyn](Lore_Ska%27vyn.md). In [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582) the local miners were contracted with extracting fast amounts of [nirncrux](Lore_Nirncrux.md), known as "red brittle" to the locals. Although abundant and seemingly inert, the stone is very dangerous to mine due to the toxic fumes released. The patron of this operation was [Cassipia](Lore_Cassipia.md), who aided and later betrayed the dangerous [Scaled Court](Lore_Scaled_Court.md). Nirncrux mining presumably halted following her death and the destruction of the Court. The entrance to an [otherworldly arena](Lore_Dragonstar_Arena.md) also appeared in the mountains north of the settlement, and before the trade routes to Dragonstar were cut off, the site was used to host a grand melee every year.

By the time of the [Imperial Simulacrum](Lore_Imperial_Simulacrum.md) in the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), the city-state of Dragonstar was an active settlement, being known as the *"home of the Sacred Rage."* It was ruled by King Dhatan, and it had a rivalry with [Elinhir](Lore_Elinhir.md) and [Skaven](Lore_Skaven.md).

During the [War of Bend'r-mahk](Lore_War_of_the_Bend%27r-mahk.md), the forces of Skyrim advanced into Hammerfell and besieged the city, eventually establishing a separate government within the city. During this time, the city was divided into western and eastern sections, walled off from each other, each with their own government. Dragonstar West was still under the control of Hammerfell, while Dragonstar East was controlled by Skyrim. An atmosphere of deep mutual distrust prevailed between the two sides. The city had an arena pit, a prison and guild halls for the [Mages Guild](Lore_Mages_Guild.md), [Fighters Guild](Lore_Fighters_Guild.md) and [Thieves Guild](Lore_Thieves_Guild.md). [Shadow Gates](Lore_Shadow_Magic.md) could also be found in the city.

The occupation persisted after the end of the war, and by [3E 432](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_432) the situation remained unchanged, although [contemporary](Lore_Maps.md#Anthology_Map) [maps](Lore_Maps.md#Oblivion_Codex_Map) continued to show the whole city as belonging to Hammerfell *[de jure](https://www.wikipedia.org/wiki/de_jure)*. The history of Dragonstar after the [Oblivion Crisis](Lore_Oblivion_Crisis.md) is unknown.

## Dragonstar Arena
[Dragonstar Arena](Lore_Dragonstar_Arena.md) (known in the past by many other names, including **Skyrim Arena** and **Valenwood Arena**) is an inter- [planar](Lore_Planes_of_Existence.md) arena complex devoted to [Boethiah](Lore_Boethiah.md). Although the entrance is located in a fixed position in [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md), portals within transport combatants to all manner of environments before ultimately ending up within Boethiah's [realm](Lore_Realm_of_Boethia.md) of [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md). The arena is an ancient [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) ruin, but the entrance regularly changes location whenever competition in the area begins to falter.

It is unknown how long the arena has been in existence for, although based on the small number of recorded champions it seems to have been established in the mid- [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). To become a champion of the arena, teams needed to reach the tenth round and defeat the previous champion. The first champion was Faithful Adrasa, who was bested by Biiri the Beautiful when the complex was known as the Valenwood Arena. The arena entrance later moved from [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md) to [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), where it was dominated by the fourth champion, Holgstad the Horrible.

In [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582) it moved again, from Skyrim to the Upper [Craglorn](Lore_Craglorn.md) region of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), high in the [Dragontail Mountains](Lore_Dragontail_Mountains.md). It was renamed the Dragonstar Arena, after the city of [Dragonstar](Lore_Dragonstar.md) to the south. The arena's true nature was not made public, and combatants, spectators, and merchants all flocked to the ruins. Notable participants include [Fighters Guild](Lore_Fighters_Guild.md) and [Mages Guild](Lore_Mages_Guild.md) members, Nords from Skyrim, [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachmen.md) [clan](Lore_Reachman_Clans.md) [Dragonclaws](Lore_Dragonclaw_Clan.md), [House Dres](Lore_House_Dres.md) slavers, [Green Pact](Lore_Green_Pact.md) [Bosmer](Lore_Bosmer.md), [werewolves](Lore_Werewolf.md), and [vampires](Lore_Vampire.md). An [Imperial Legion](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md) even entered into the arena, with plans to neutralize the region's strongest warriors so that the [Empire](Lore_Empire_of_Cyrodiil_(Interregnum).md) could retake Craglorn. The Mages Guild team was enslaved after falling in battle, and forced to fight alongside [Dwemer Animunculi](Lore_Dwemer_Animunculi.md). All manner of beasts were similarly employed in the arena, including undead [Anka-Ra](Lore_Anka-Ra.md) warriors and victims of [Corprus](Lore_Corprus.md). Boethiah's [Daedric](Lore_Daedra.md) servants also took part, such as [Bloodwraith](Lore_Bloodwraith_Clan.md) [Dremora](Lore_Dremora.md) and [Daedric Titans](Lore_Daedric_Titan.md). The sixth champion of the arena, a [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) named Hiath the Battlemaster, was defeated by the [Vestige](Lore_The_Vestige.md).

## Dragontail Mountains
The [Dragontail Mountains](Lore_Dragontail_Mountains.md), (called the **Dragon's-Tail** in the First Era by Redguards) are a mountain range in northern [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md). They contain the Upper Craglorn region and then curve to the southwest, towards the [Fallen Wastes](Lore_Fallen_Wastes.md) and the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md). Politically, the mountains are surrounded by several regions to the east and west. On its western flanks was the [Alik'r](Lore_Alik%27r.md), [Dak'fron](Lore_Dak%27fron.md), [Tigonus](Lore_Tigonus_(fiefdom).md), and [Santaki](Lore_Santaki_(county).md). To the east is [Lainlyn](Lore_Lainlyn_(barony).md), [Mournoth](Lore_Mournoth_(fiefdom).md), [Kozanset](Lore_Kozanset_(barony).md), and [Totambu](Lore_Totambu.md). The march of [Ephesus](Lore_Ephesus_(march).md) is located in the middle of the Dragontail Mountains. Regions in the area include the Valley of Blades, Bazidir Valley, Lemdazi Valley, and Ngonta Valley, and named peaks in the range include the volcano of Mount Dakobo, Mount Ewado near [Scourg Barrow](Lore_Scourg_Barrow.md), Mount Nombaje, and [Heldorn Mount](Lore_Heldorn_Mount.md). Other locations of note include [Drear](Lore_Drear.md) and Ganada Pass.

## Drajkmyr Marsh
The [Drajkmyr](Lore_Drajkmyr.md) or **Black Morass** is an immense saltwater marsh, formed by the estuaries of the [River Karth](Lore_River_Karth.md) and the [River Hjaal](Lore_River_Hjaal.md), which dominates [Hjaalmarch](Lore_Hjaalmarch.md) in the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). Largely uninhabited, it is cloaked in an eerie mist. The Drajkmyr encompasses much of central Hjaalmarch, bordered by the lumber town of [Morthal](Lore_Morthal.md) to the south, the [Karth River](Lore_Karth_River.md) and [Fort Snowhawk](Lore_Fort_Snowhawk.md) to the west, both the [Great Arch](Lore_Great_Arch.md) and the Mouths of the Karth to the north, and finally, the snowy woods that lead towards [the Pale](Lore_The_Pale.md) to the east. The swamp was formed some time in the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md), and the region was originally covered by a broad glacier beforehand.

## Drakelowe
[Drakelowe](Lore_Drakelowe.md) is a settlement located along the [Reed River](Lore_Reed_River.md) in the [Nibenay Basin](Lore_Nibenay_Basin.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md).

During the [Three Banners War](Lore_Three_Banners_War.md) of [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), Drakelowe Keep was an expansive and strategically important fortress located on the western bank of the river. It had its own farm, mine and lumbermill, and was heavily fortified. It was initially located within the territory held by the [Ebonheart Pact](Lore_Ebonheart_Pact.md), although the keep changed hands many times over the course of the war.

By [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433), nothing remained of the keep. Drakelowe consisted of a small farmhouse on the east bank, inhabited by an ex-member of the [Glenmoril Wyrd](Lore_Glenmoril_Wyrd.md) named Melisande.

## Dranil Kir
[Dranil Kir](Lore_Dranil_Kir.md) is a mountainous island found off the coast of [Auridon](Lore_Auridon.md), amidst the province of the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md). It has been an island of mystery, rumored to be surrounded by treacherous storms, and archaic traps. The island of Dranil Kir has been used by the [Psijic Order](Lore_Psijic_Order.md) of [Artaeum](Lore_Artaeum.md) to contain the [Obscuros](Lore_Obscuros.md), a [scrying](Lore_Sight.md) device that projects a mage's perception to everyone in range. It is because of the supernatural powers of the Obscuros, the island is covered in poor weather. The island has described as having disappeared through magical means at one point, likely by the Psijic Order.

## Draoife Dell
[Draoife Dell](Lore_Draoife_Dell.md) is a landmark located in the central region of [Galen](Lore_Galen.md) island, situated north of [Vastyr](Lore_Vastyr.md) and south of Telling Stone. It serves as the gathering place for the [Draoife](Lore_Draoife.md), a council of nine Archdruids and Elders. The council is made up of three archdruids from each of the three [druid](Lore_Druid.md) circles and convenes to govern and make decisions for the entire druid community. The council meetings at Draoife Dell are responsible for resolving disputes, declaring the start and end of seasons, and issuing proclamations that apply to all circles. As the overseer and guide of the druid community, the council's decisions are widely respected across all the circles.

## Dread Vullain
[Dread Vullain](Lore_Dread_Vullain.md) (also called **Vullain Haven** or simply **Vullain**) is a village located in the region of [Greenshade](Lore_Greenshade.md), within the province of [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md). Unlike the rest of Valenwood, the Wood Elven hunters of Vullain sworn loyalty to the [nereid](Lore_Nereid.md) in the region.

## Drear
[Drear](Lore_Drear.md) is a location that existed during the time of the [Tiber War](Lore_Tiber_War.md), nestled within the [Dragontail Mountains](Lore_Dragontail_Mountains.md) near the [Bjoulsae River](Lore_Bjoulsae_River.md). Drear is neighbored by several settlements, including [Heldorn Mount](Lore_Heldorn_Mount.md) to the east, [Dragonstar](Lore_Dragonstar.md) to the northeast, and [Skaven](Lore_Skaven.md) to the south. Following the [Forebear](Lore_Forebears.md) alliance with [Tiber Septim](Lore_Tiber_Septim.md), Drear was one of the first locations captured by the [Third Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md) during the war.

## Driftwood Isle
**Driftwood Isle** is a small tidal island west of [Solstheim](Lore_Solstheim.md).<sup>[[2]](#cite_note-2)</sup>

## Druadach Mountains
The [Druadach Mountains](Lore_Druadach_Mountains.md) are a mountain range which separate western [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) and eastern [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md) and [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md). The misty peaks tower over [Markarth](Lore_Markarth.md) and [Karthwasten](Lore_Karthwasten.md) in [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md), though they gradually diminish closer to [Haafingar](Lore_Haafingar.md) and [Solitude](Lore_Solitude.md). The range curves around the [Karth River](Lore_Karth_River.md), and nearly stretches into [Falkreath Hold](Lore_Falkreath_Hold.md). It is part of the greater [Dragon's Teeth Mountains](Lore_Dragon%27s_Teeth_Mountains.md), bordering its other subranges such as the [Wrothgarian](Lore_Wrothgarian_Mountains.md) range in the High Rock regions of [Wrothgar](Lore_Wrothgar.md) and [Bangkorai](Lore_Bangkorai.md) to the east. It makes up the north border of [Craglorn](Lore_Craglorn.md), while the south border is defined by the [Dragontail Mountains](Lore_Dragontail_Mountains.md). The [Forgotten Vale](Lore_Forgotten_Vale.md), an enormous glacial valley, is located deep within the Druadach Mountains, on the border between Skyrim and High Rock.

Since the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md), the [Reachmen](Lore_Reachmen.md) have been taking advantage of the cliffs, caves, and rugged terrain of the Druadach Mountains in guerrilla warfare campaigns against invading armies. They are home to many ancient ruins, fortresses, and [Orc](Lore_Orc.md) strongholds.

## Druadach Redoubt
[Druadach Redoubt](Lore_Druadach_Redoubt.md) is a [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md) bastion and [forge](Lore_Smithing.md) located in the [Druadach Mountains](Lore_Druadach_Mountains.md) in [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md), southeast of the [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md) [ruins](Lore_Dwemer_Ruins.md) of [Bthar-Zel](Lore_Bthar-Zel.md). The cavern within was known as the **Druadach Redoubt Cave**, which was abundant in [iron](Lore_Iron.md) and [quicksilver](Lore_Quicksilver.md) ore. Various plants and fungi grew within and around the fortifications, including [nightshade](Lore_Nightshade.md), [hanging moss](Lore_Hanging_Moss.md), blue [mountain flowers](Lore_Mountain_Flower.md), [mora tapinella](Lore_Mora_Tapinella.md), [juniper trees](Lore_Juniper.md), and [potatoes](Lore_Potato.md).

## Dunbarrow
[Dunbarrow](Lore_Dunbarrow.md) is a small town on the [northern coast](Lore_Northern_Coast.md) of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). It was the birthplace of Captain [Torradan ap Dugal](Lore_Torradan_ap_Dugal.md) and the namesake of Dunbarrow Cove in [Anvil](Lore_Anvil.md).

## Dune
[Dune](Lore_Dune.md) (alternatively known as **Dunei** in [Ta'agra](Lore_Ta%27agra.md)) is one of the eight major cities in the province of [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md), in which it serves as the largest [Khajiiti](Lore_Khajiit.md) -settlement on the borderlands of [Reaper's March](Lore_Reaper%27s_March.md). Present-day Dune is most well-known as a prominent merchant town with its graceful architecture and abundance of tea houses, but in ancient times, the city was the seat of a kingdom that was known for their moon priests and scholars. At that time, the Kingship of Dune also held the title of Moon-Bishop.

## Dunlain Falls
[Dunlain Falls](Lore_Dunlain_Falls.md) (or simply **Dunlain**) is a village found in the province of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md). Dunlain may refer to a historical area of northern High Rock, as the village is found near the city-state of [Farrun](Lore_Farrun.md), but there is flora known as the [Dunlain Daisies](Lore_Dunlain_Daisies.md), which are found in the pastoral region of [Westmark Moor](Lore_Westmark_Moor.md), in the region of [Rivenspire](Lore_Rivenspire.md).

During the [Imperial Simulacrum](Lore_Imperial_Simulacrum.md) in the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), the village of Dunlain Falls was an active settlement. It was ruled by Lord Theodastyr, and it had a rivalry with Karthgran Vale. Dunlain Falls was neighbored by several settlements, including [Cloud Spring](Lore_Cloud_Spring.md) to the north, Farrun to the northwest, and Karthgran Vale to the west.

## Dunmeth Pass
[Dunmeth Pass](Lore_Dunmeth_Pass.md) (also called **Dunmeth Path**) is the main pass and one of the few traversable roads leading through the [Velothi Mountains](Lore_Velothi_Mountains.md), branching northeast [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) with northwest [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). It historically served as a significant avenue of trade for the region. The nearest settlement from the eastern side is the town of [Cormar View](Lore_Cormar_View.md), but the closest city is [Blacklight](Lore_Blacklight.md), which is not very far from the pass anyway. From the western side is the large city of [Windhelm](Lore_Windhelm.md) and smaller settlements such as Lower Yorgrim. The [Imperial Garrison](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md) that guards the Dunmeth Pass are headquartered in Windhelm.

## Dunstad Grove
[Dunstad Grove](Lore_Dunstad_Grove.md) (also called **Fort Dunstad**) is a fortified settlement located in a mountain pass of the main road, directly south of [Dawnstar](Lore_Dawnstar.md), in the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). The fort itself was built around [the Pale's](Lore_The_Pale.md) main road by the [Imperial Legion](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md) to serve as a highly effective checkpoint station and prison for some of Skyrim's worst criminals.

## Dusk
[Dusk](Lore_Dusk.md) is one of the eight major cities in the province of the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md) and is located on the southeast corner of [Summerset Isle](Lore_Summerset_Isle.md). The city acquired its name because the cliffs behind it leave it in shadows as the [sun](Lore_Sun.md) sets in the west. Before it was settled, Dusk was the site of a lonely tower called **Dusk Keep** (also called the **Tower of Dusk**), whose origins are a complete mystery.

## Dusktown
[Dusktown](Lore_Dusktown.md) was a settlement found deep in [Blackreach](Lore_Blackreach.md), the legendary subterranean realm underneath [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). The mining town was run by the Bitterblade Mining Consortium and founded by the couple, Elle Bitterblade and Urlvar. Their main goal was to be the first to establish a frontier in the cavern and harvest the rare materials only found in it. The town also loaned its name to the cavern region it is based in called **Dusktown Cavern**.

## Dwarfhome
[Dwarfhome](Lore_Dwarfhome.md) was a [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md) city of the [Clan Rourken](Lore_Clan_Rourken.md) located somewhere in the region of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md).

## Dwynnen
[Dwynnen](Lore_Dwynnen.md) is a barony found in the province of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md), in the region of the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md). Dwynnen played a large role in the battle against the [Camoran Usurper](Lore_Camoran_Usurper.md), whose legion came across western Tamriel like an unbridled plague. It was the region's first baron, [Othrok](Lore_Othrok.md), who led the assault and overcame the warmonger.

Dwynnen is normally temperate, and verdant all year long, except come wintertide. It largely consists of woodland from the northernmost portion to the southern coastal region. Dwynnen is neighbored by [Anticlere](Lore_Anticlere.md) to the southwest, [Bhoriane](Lore_Bhoriane.md) to the southeast, [Kambria](Lore_Kambria.md) to the east, [Phrygias](Lore_Phrygias.md) to the north, [Urvaius](Lore_Urvaius.md) to the west, and the [Wrothgarian Mountains](Lore_Wrothgarian_Mountains.md) to the northeast.

The [Order of the Raven](Lore_Order_of_the_Raven.md) is the barony's knightly order and they serve to protect both their country and their lordship. The patron deity of Dwynnen is [Julianos](Lore_Julianos.md). The [Thrafey](Lore_Thrafey.md) clan of [vampires](Lore_Vampire.md) are active in Dwynnen.

## Dwynnen (city)
[Dwynnen](Lore_Dwynnen_(city).md) is the capital of the eponymous [region](Lore_Dwynnen.md) in the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md) region of southern [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md). The city has been around since at least the late [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md) and has served as the capital ever since. A river surrounds the Dwynnen City on nearly all sides. A settlement or hamlet called Harden is located across the river to the northeast of the city.

## Dyzera's Realm
[Dyzera's Realm](Lore_Dyzera%27s_Realm.md) is a small pocket realm of [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md) ruled over by a powerful [Nocturnal Shrike](Lore_Nocturnal_Shrike.md) named Dyzera, a servant of the [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Prince.md) [Nocturnal](Lore_Nocturnal.md). It is a realm of perpetual twilight resembling the [Evergloam](Lore_Evergloam.md), covered by exotic bioluminescent plant life.

1. [^](#cite_ref-LOMap AD_1-0) [Map of the Aldmeri Dominion – Pocket Guide to the Empire, 1st Edition](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:LO-map-Aldmeri_Dominion_(Morrowind_Codex).png)
2. [^](#cite_ref-2) [*The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim: Prima Official Game Guide*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Books:The_Elder_Scrolls_V:_Skyrim:_Prima_Official_Game_Guide) — David Hodgson