# Factions B

[Overview](Lore_Factions.md) | [A](Lore_Factions_A.md) B [C](Lore_Factions_C.md) [D](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_D) [E](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_E) [F](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_F) [G](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_G) [H](Lore_Factions_H.md) [I](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_I) [J](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_J) [K](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_K) [L](Lore_Factions_L.md) [M](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_M) [N](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_N) [O](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_O) [P](Lore_Factions_P.md) [Q](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_Q) [R](Lore_Factions_R.md) [S](Lore_Factions_S.md) [T](Lore_Factions_T.md) [U](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_U) [V](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_V) [W](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_W) [X](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_X) Y [Z](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_Z)
---

## Baandari Pedlars
The [Baandari Pedlars](Lore_Baandari_Pedlars.md) (or simply the **Baandari**) are a group of nomadic [Khajiiti](Lore_Khajiit.md) merchants that travel all over [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) to sell their wares. Despite the animosity they experience from the other races, they are inclusive when it comes to recruiting non Khajiit into their ranks. They live by a code of conduct known as the *"Baandari Code,"* which states that loose items are rightfully salvageable, the peddlers must indulge clients in prophecies they want to believe in, and guarantee them of a product's utmost value and versatility. The Baandari Clan live by this lifestyle and with no other alternative as it is set in stone. They considered themselves the *"wandering litter"* of [Baan Dar](Lore_Baan_Dar.md), the Bandit God of southern Tamriel. They adopt the god's will, as seen in their name.

## Bagrakh Clan
The [Bagrakh Clan](Lore_Bagrakh_Clan.md) (or **Clan Bagrakh**) is an [Orsimer](Lore_Orc.md) clan known to have existed since the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md) and resided in [Wrothgar](Lore_Wrothgar.md). They were one of the founding Orc clans of [Old Orsinium](Lore_Orsinium.md) in the First Era. [Malacath](Lore_Malacath.md) described them as warriors of Old Orsinium, but criticized them for grow to enjoy raiding the weak for cheap thrills, instead of doing it to draw out worthy opposition. [King Kurog](Lore_Kurog_gro-Orsinium.md) was a famous member of the clan, noted for founding the [Second Orsinium](Lore_Orsinium.md).

## Bailiffs Guild
The [Bailiffs Guild](Lore_Bailiffs_Guild.md) was an [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) organization that existed during the reign of the [Second Empire](Lore_Second_Empire.md). It served as a [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) -wide guild for bailiffs, sworn officers of the law. In its time, the guild was feared by professional thieves.

## Bal Molagmer
The [Bal Molagmer](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Bal_Molagmer) ([Dark Elvish](Lore_Dark_Elvish.md) for *"Stone Fire Men"*) were a group of righteous thieves from [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md) who died out early in the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md). Although the Bal Molagmer were thieves, they stole only from the unjust and gave to those in need. The Bal Molagmer carried burning stones from the [Red Mountain](Lore_Red_Mountain.md), and their special protective gloves became the symbol of the group.

In [3E 427](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_427), [Gentleman Jim Stacey](Lore_Gentleman_Jim_Stacey.md), who was the master thief of the [Thieves Guild](Lore_Thieves_Guild.md) on Vvardenfell, attempted to rekindle the now-legendary Bal Molagmer. This move was likely an attempt to appeal to the local [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md), who preferred the [Camonna Tong](Lore_Camonna_Tong.md) to the Imperial Thieves Guild. Stacey made the new Bal Molagmer a subfaction of the Guild, and enlisted his best thieves to continue the tradition of aiding the poor, using the group's distinctive gloves to give the impression that the Bal Molagmer had returned. Rumors have been circulating among the people of Vvardenfell that the Bal Molagmer were resurfacing.

Gentleman Jim Stacey requested an [adventurer](Lore_Nerevarine.md) to send a slaver's ring to Ilmeni Dren of the [Twin Lamps](Lore_Twin_Lamps.md) in the name of Bal Molagmer as a symbol of good faith and in hopes she would make a good use of it. It is unclear whether the ring was ultimately delivered or not.The ultimate fate of this subfaction is unknown.

## Band of The Three
The [Band of The Three](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Band_of_The_Three) (or simply **The Three**) was a bandit clan from the region of [Stormhaven](Lore_Stormhaven.md), in the province of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md). They were active sometime in the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), were garnered an infamous reputation across the land and acquired a vast amount of wealth. Their leaders were the eponymous Three, who started at humble beginnings as thieves and scavengers, but throughout the years formed a notorious clan of murderers and highwaymen that gained the attention of High King [Emeric](Lore_Emeric.md) and the [Knights of the Flame](Lore_Knights_of_the_Flame.md) in [Alcaire](Lore_Alcaire.md). In [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), the bandit clan re-surfaced as spirits and renamed themselves **The Fallen Three**.

## Barbarians
[Barbarians](Lore_Barbarians.md) are the warrior subculture of society that lives out in the wilderness, i.e., plain nomads, mountain tribes, and sea [reavers](Lore_Reaver.md). Despite their blunt and aggressive attitudes, barbarians are battle-hardy and relish in finding glory. They often hunt to sustain themselves and use their knowledge on wild animals, hunting, combat, and arms to sell their services to city-folk.

Barbarians focus on speed and strength, which may be why they avoid heavy armor and prefer light or even medium armor. They can also be medical experts as they have honed their ability to survive in the wilderness. They are also capable athletes, swimmers, climbers, and effective dodgers. They may also be adept in the [Giantish](Lore_Giantish.md) language. The term is also used derogatorily when referring to someone brutish, uncivilized, or even unintelligent.

## Bards College
The [Bards College](Lore_Bards_College.md) is an institute found in the city of [Solitude](Lore_Solitude.md), within the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). The Bards College is well known throughout the province as a prominent institute of music and history for the aspiring bard, or the *Skald* as they are known in Skyrim. Students of the Bards College are known to be well-trained and successful in their business. Graduates of the Bards College are often employed in various noble households; some have even entertained the [Elder Council](Lore_Elder_Council.md) of the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md). The college is marked by the *Flame of Callisos*, which is found at the entrance. As long as the flame remains lit, the College will stand.

## Barristers Guild
The [Barristers Guild](Lore_Barristers_Guild.md) is an officially sanctioned guild. As their name implies, they employ barristers from across the [Empire](Lore_Empire.md). Barristers and other members of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md)'s legal system follow the same universal laws, but each province may have their own set of rules and decrees. A book known as *[Legal Basics](Lore_Legal_Basics.md)*, penned by [Anchivius, M.Z.F.](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Anchivius,_M.Z.F.), lays down the same laws and regulations observed all over Tamriel. The Tamrielic legal system also operates under the Prophet [Marukh](Lore_Marukh.md)'s famous credo, *"All are guilty until they have proven themselves innocent."*

## Barsaebic Ayleids
The [Barsaebic Ayleids](Lore_Barsaebic_Ayleids.md) (or simply the **Barsaebics**) were a [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md) [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) subculture that emerged from the [Aedra](Lore_Aedra.md) -worshipping Ayleids and were subsequently driven into exile following the [Scouring of Wendelbek](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Scouring_of_Wendelbek) in [1E 198](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_198). They occupied northeastern [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md) and potentially parts of [Blackwood](Lore_Blackwood.md).

## Battle-Born
The [Battle-Borns](Lore_Battle-Born.md) are a rich, influential clan in [Whiterun](Lore_Whiterun.md) who staunchly supported the [Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md) in the [Stormcloak Rebellion](Lore_Stormcloak_Rebellion.md).

## Bear-Heart Clan
[Bear-Heart Clan](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Bear-Heart_Clan) was one of numerous [clans](Lore_Reachman_Clans.md) of [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md) that lived in [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md) during the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). Their name is derived from the blessing of Hrokkibeg, the Bear aspect of [Hircine](Lore_Hircine.md). Some members of the clan were known for wearing simple pendants made of beer teeth and claws strung along a thin strip of leather.

## The Beautiful
[The Beautiful](Lore_The_Beautiful.md) are a violent group of militants that appeared in [Summerset Isle](Lore_Summerset_Isle.md) during the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md). These radicals sought to destroy significant monuments and assassinate traditional leaders in an attempt to further modernity and reject their [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md) heritage. Their assassination of the daughter of the King of [Shimmerene](Lore_Shimmerene.md) horrified and outraged the public.

## Beldama Wyrd
The [Beldama Wyrd](Lore_Beldama_Wyrd.md) (also known as the **Beldama Coven** or **Beldama Ward**) are a female-only [Bretonic](Lore_Breton.md) [Wyrd coven](Lore_Wyrd_Covens.md) that is attuned to nature, venerates the ancient forest, and communes with the Forest God of the Bretons, [Jephre](Lore_Jephre.md) the Storyteller. Membership however also extends to outsiders, even those from other races. These ward-sisters are found in the region of [Daenia](Lore_Daenia.md), and its political [counterpart](Lore_Daenia_(duchy).md) in the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md). The Beldama are known to congregate around the eponymous [Beldama Wyrd Tree](Lore_Beldama_Wyrd_Tree.md), a spirit in the form of a gargantuan oak tree that is located on an island surrounded by a lake. It serves as the heart of the coven's mystical crafts. The symbol of the Beldama Wyrd is a stylized [triskelion](Lore_Triskelion.md).

The Beldama Coven were originally part of [the Wyrd](Lore_The_Wyrd.md), a singular entity that later split into subgroups, such as the Beldama and the [Daedra](Lore_Daedra.md) -worshipping [Glenmoril Wyrd](Lore_Glenmoril_Wyrd.md). The Wyrd originated from the ancient people that dwelled in [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md), who are referred to by the retroactive nomenclature, the [Druids of Galen](Lore_Druids_of_Galen.md). A religious schism brought about the Wyrd's separation from their [druid](Lore_Druid.md) brethren. The Wyrd abandoned civilization in favor of living in the wilds, and believe that they are nature itself: the forest, the plants and beasts within it, and even the weather. In contrast, while ancient druids revered nature, they were not keen to isolate themselves and worship the untamed wilds. The druids accepted what they interpreted as their "proper place" as people, and embraced the idea that civilization can coexist alongside nature. The Druids of Galen and the Wyrd disapproved of each other's lifestyles: the druids found the ways of the Wyrd unsavory, and the Wyrd thought the druids as "barons in ivy robes" that were no better than city-dwellers. Like the Wyrd, druids would much later practice self-isolation to varying degrees, as a response to the historical encroachments and heartless deprivations that would await them. When the Druids of Galen were driven into exile to the [Systres](Lore_Systres.md), these sisterhoods of the Wyrd remained behind on the mainland to safeguard the forests of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md), with some of the dozen or so covens even spreading throughout [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md).

## Benevolence of Mara
The [Benevolence of Mara](Lore_Benevolence_of_Mara.md) (often called **Her Benevolence**) is the temple dedicated to [Mara](Lore_Mara.md) the Divine Mother, Goddess of Compassion and Fertility. These are generally the place of worship for Mara. The priesthood is devoted to achieving the unification of all creatures through the spread and research of love. The Maran Knights is the Benevolence's militant arm. The [Akatosh Chantry](Lore_Akatosh_Chantry.md), the [House of Dibella](Lore_House_of_Dibella.md), and the [Temple of Stendarr](Lore_Temple_of_Stendarr.md) are considered its allies, all the while the [Resolution of Zenithar](Lore_Resolution_of_Zenithar.md) are its enemies. In the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md), the Benevolence of Mara has many chapters, some of which including [Anticlere](Lore_Anticlere.md), [Betony](Lore_Betony.md), [Ephesus](Lore_Ephesus_(march).md), and [Glenumbra Moors](Lore_Glenumbra_Moors_(barony).md).

## Berne Clan
The [Berne Clan](Lore_Berne_Clan.md) is one of the three major [vampire](Lore_Vampire.md) bloodlines found in [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md). Those of the bloodline are very agile and sneaky, gifted with unnatural skill in unarmed combat. They are said to be swift and agile, preferring stealth and ambush, first poisoning with a bite before later returning to feed when the prey has been weakened. In [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), the Berne Clan was present in the ruins of Galom Daeus and Dushariran. They were led in [3E 427](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_427) by [Raxle Berne](Lore_Raxle_Berne.md) from the [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md) ruin of Galom Daeus and also had a presence in many of the ancestral tombs around the island. They are native to Vvardenfell and are never encountered on the mainland.

## The Betrayed
The Betrayed were the [Snow Elves](Lore_Snow_Elf.md) who stopped hiding from and fighting the [Nords](Lore_Nord.md), and instead sought asylum in the [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md) cities, where they would devolve into the [twisted version of the Falmer](Lore_Falmer.md) that inhabit Skyrim's caves. The only Snow Elves that are known to have survived without joining the Betrayed were in the [Forgotten Vale](Lore_Forgotten_Vale.md), or possibly assimilated into other races of mer.<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-1)</sup>

## Bi-Lunar Guard
[Bi-Lunar Guard](Lore_Bi-Lunar_Guard.md), also known as the **Warrior Guard**, **Mane's Legion**, and **Protectors of the Mane** was the faction that served as the protectors of the Palace of the [Mane](Lore_Mane.md), located near [Torval](Lore_Torval.md). Outsiders have been traditionally forbidden to trespass on the estates of the Mane, and the members of the Warrior Guard were responsible for enforcing this measure. By tradition, they are all mounted on matching [Black Mane Lions](Lore_Senche-Cat.md), which are reserved for them alone. Riding one of those steeds near them is considered a great taboo.

Warrior Guard served the spiritual leader of the Khajiit, the Mane. In ancient times the Khajiit would shave off their manes in deference to the Mane, braiding them into locks which the Mane would incorporate into its own headdress. The Mane was so weighted down by the hair that movement was difficult without aid and they often traveled the countryside by means of a palanquin. As the population grew, however, this custom became impractical. As a result, the headdress was altered to only include the hair of the Mane's tribe and the Warrior Guard, which still included several hundred in number.

## Black Bow Bandits
The Black Bow Bandits were a band of raiders operating out of the [Blackwood](Lore_Blackwood.md) region in the vicinity of [Leyawiin](Lore_Leyawiin.md), and were active during the [Oblivion Crisis](Lore_Oblivion_Crisis.md). Led by a warrior named Black Brugo, these bandits gained a reputation notorious enough to attract the attention of Leyawiin nobility. Their signature weapons were their Black Bows (merely mundane steel bows painted black) which could be turned in to the Count of Leyawiin for a bounty. The group was left leaderless and suffered a devastating blow when the [Hero of Kvatch](Lore_Hero.md) and their companion, Mazoga the Orc, assaulted Telepe, the Ayleid ruin Brugo had claimed for himself. However, despite this loss, members of the Black Bow Bandits continued to operate through the end of the Oblivion Crisis and start of the Fourth Era. While it's possible that all of its remaining members were eventually tracked down and killed by the Hero of Kvatch, the ultimate fate of the group is unknown.

## Black-Briar Clan
The [Black-Briar Clan](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Black-Briar_Clan) is an ancient prominent [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) family from [Riften](Lore_Riften.md).

In [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), the matriarch of the Black-Briar family, Leidela Black-Briar, had ties with Krin Ren-dro, a former member of the [Eyes of the Queen](Lore_Eyes_of_the_Queen.md).

In [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201), the matriarch of the Black-Briar family, Maven Black-Briar was the owner of Black-Briar Meadery and had ties with both the [Thieves Guild](Lore_Thieves_Guild.md) and [Dark Brotherhood](Lore_Dark_Brotherhood.md)

## Black Dart Gang
There have been two Black Dart Gangs.

The earliest known group was a group of illicit [Moon Sugar](Lore_Moon_Sugar.md) farmers operating underground in Zainsipilu, working a crop planted by a Khajiit during the late Second Era.<sup>[[2]](#cite_note-2)</sup>

A later group of criminal vagrants called the Black Dart Gang was based out of [Mournhold](Lore_Mournhold.md)'s Temple Sewers, and known for their adept use of very powerful throwing [darts](Lore_Throwing_Weapons.md). In [3E 427](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_427) their notoriety caught the attention of the [Nerevarine](Lore_Nerevarine.md), who sought to avenge the death of a local Dunmer.<sup>[[3]](#cite_note-3)</sup><sup>[[4]](#cite_note-4)</sup>

## Black Hand
The [Black Hand](Lore_Black_Hand.md) is the ruling body within the [Dark Brotherhood](Lore_Dark_Brotherhood.md). It is a council made up of four Speakers and one Listener, representing four fingers and a thumb. The Listener is an individual chosen by the [Night Mother](Lore_Night_Mother.md) to guide the Dark Brotherhood. Only the Listener can hear the Night Mother's voice, believed by the Brotherhood to represent the will of [Sithis](Lore_Sithis.md). The Black Hand is responsible for overseeing the Brotherhood's sanctuaries, among other duties. Members of the Black Hand are identified by their distinct black robes.

Although unknown to most members of the Dark Brotherhood, the Black Hand does employ additional members. Each Speaker possesses their own Silencer, personal assassins who represent the nail of each finger and act in accordance with their Speaker's orders. The Black Hand may also on occasion appoint a Keeper, a guardian whose sole duty is to safeguard the Night Mother.

## Black Horse Courier
[The Black Horse Courier](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Black_Horse_Courier) was the Imperial news service, chartered by the [Elder Council](Lore_Elder_Council.md) and operating out of the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md) and [Cyrodiil Province](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). Since the organization was funded by the [Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md), their broadsheets were always free.

## Black-Moon Clan
The [Black-Moon Clan](Lore_Black-Moon_Clan.md) was one of the [clans](Lore_Reachman_Clans.md) of [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md) that lived in [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md), a region in western [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) during the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md) in [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). They were known for their hostile ways and for waylaying travelers in the hills outside of Markarth. In [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582) their camp was located northwest of the Arkthzand Great Lift and northeast of the [Bthardamz](Lore_Bthardamz.md).

The Reachfolk of the Black-Moon Clan dedicated themselves to one of the [Great Spirits of the Reach](Lore_Daedric_Prince.md), [Namira](Lore_Namira.md). The shrine dedicated to the Spirit Queen was known as the Black-Moon Ritual Stone and was located in the center of the camp.

## Blackcaster Mages Guild
The [Blackcaster Mages Guild](Lore_Blackcaster_Mages_Guild.md), also known simply as the **Blackcasters**, were a guild of mages operating in the city of [Elinhir](Lore_Elinhir.md). The guild was founded by Felix "Blackcaster" Augustus, who is said to have left the comfort and the confines of the [Mages Guild](Lore_Mages_Guild.md), along with his followers, to practice their arts in [Craglorn](Lore_Craglorn.md). While they were considered hedge mages rebelling against the authority of the Mages Guild by some, the Blackcasters rejected the claim that they were renegades. According to the Blackcasters, the Guild's founding had nothing to do with any disagreements about discipline or practice, but was instead motivated by a desire to set out to new territories beyond the guild's reach. Furthermore, they claimed that Felix Blackcaster was a Mages Guild member of high standing, and even kept in contact with his superiors in the guild years after founding his own. While the Blackcasters claimed their practices were ordinary by magical standards, the Mages Guild seemed to consider them renegades.

## Blackdrake Clan
The [Blackdrake Clan](Lore_Blackdrake_Clan.md) was a prominent [clan](Lore_Reachman_Clans.md) of [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md) that lived in [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md) during the reign of the [Longhouse Emperors](Lore_Longhouse_Emperors.md). They were composed of friends and close relatives of the Longhouse Emperors.

## Blackfeather Court
The [Blackfeather Court](Lore_Blackfeather_Court.md) is a feudal court of [Crow Daedra](Lore_Crow_Daedra.md) that rules over [Crow's Wood](Lore_Crow%27s_Wood.md) and other parts of the [Evergloam](Lore_Evergloam.md). They were hatched by a Nether-Niece of [Nocturnal](Lore_Nocturnal.md) called the Crow Mother, whom they served. The Court is locked in a constant state of war with the [wolves](Lore_Wolf.md) and [giant bats](Lore_Giant_Bat.md) that inhabit Crow's Wood. The crows charge a toll on visitors to the realm, but are seldom taken seriously. Each vassal of the Court is a creature of darkness and shadows, imbued with a small portion of Nocturnal's power. The crows refer to Nocturnal as their Mighty Mistress.

Some time in the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), a [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) member of the [Mages Guild](Lore_Mages_Guild.md) named Rulantaril Oran came to the Crow's Wood in search of forgotten spells. He did this by creating an enchanted chest to open a portal to the realm, which he hid in a small cave near the city of [Davon's Watch](Lore_Davon%27s_Watch.md) in [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). By striking a deal with the Crow Mother, Rulantaril came to the Court as a student and learned the secret magic of the crows. In return, he was to stay by the Crow Mother's side. Seeking to fool her, Rulantaril locked the Crow Mother within her tower, but ended up trapped inside with her because of the deal. His son, Telbaril, entered the realm in search of his father in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582). Groups of adventurers, enticed by the chest, began to enter the Crow's Wood as well. The Blackfeather Court charged these adventurers tolls of flesh and silver, demanding to be brought silver trinkets or the corpses of dead bats to devour. The adventurers were then given citizenship of the Court, along with vassal servants. The crows helped in Telbaril's search for his father, but it is unknown if Rulantaril or the Crow Mother survived the ensuing hunt.

## Blackguards
The [Blackguards](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Blackguards) were a bandit group consisting mainly of [Nagas](Lore_Naga.md) that operated out of [Blackrose Prison](Lore_Blackrose_Prison.md) in the mid [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). This prison was home to some of the Empire's worst prisoners and the Naga suffered the most at the hands of the [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) jailers. The descendants of these Naga captives violently took over the prison and called themselves the Blackguards, reclaiming the prison to be their fortress and wielding the very chains that once bound them.

Drakeeh the Naga became the "raj-kaal", the leader of the Blackguards. Originally only consisting of [Argonians](Lore_Argonian.md), the Blackguards would later open membership to "dryskins", the non-Argonian races. The Gauntlet was born as an arena into which were thrown people that questioned Drakeeh's leadership and people who tried to leave the Blackguards. The Blackguards' contraband operations were profitable and widespread, stretching as far as [Auridon](Lore_Auridon.md) and [Glenumbra](Lore_Glenumbra.md). In [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), the [Undaunted](Lore_Undaunted.md) were tasked with putting an end to the nefarious activities of the Blackguards. The Undaunted launched an assault on Blackrose Prison, which the Blackguards had repurposed as a fortress, and managed to slay Drakeeh the Unchained.

## Blackmarrow Cult
The [Blackmarrow Cult](Lore_Blackmarrow_Cult.md) (or simply the **Blackmarrow**) was a [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md) group of [necromancers](Lore_Necromancy.md) led by the powerful [Nord](Lore_Nord.md) necromancer Orryn the Black, whom his followers referred to as "the master". The cult served to further Orryn's ambitions to reach new heights of necromancy, thereby legitimizing it as a field of study distinct from the School of [Conjuration](Lore_Conjuration.md). In his hubris, Orryn declared his ultimate goal to be mastery over existence itself.

Orryn was known for carrying out necromantic experiments on exotic hosts; in addition to regular corpses, he also delighted in reanimating the carcasses of animals and even the remains of [Daedra](Lore_Daedra.md).

Circa [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), Orryn learned of the existence of [Fang Lair](Lore_Fang_Lair.md), an ancient necropolis originally carved out of the [Dragon's Teeth Mountains](Lore_Dragon%27s_Teeth_Mountains.md) by the [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md). After reading *[Arkngthamz-Phng: Caught in the Dragon's Teeth](Lore_Arkngthamz-Phng_(book).md)*, the [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md) researcher Neramo's treatise on the subject, Orryn instructed his cult to begin scouring the mountain range for an entrance to the necropolis. Although they suffered some casualties in their search, the Blackmarrow Cult eventually discovered the location of Fang Lair and established themselves within its depths. During this time, the cult developed its own distinct style of arms and armor.

Once established within the ruins, Orryn and his cult began to make use of the vast amount of mortal remains within to raise their [undead](Lore_Undead.md) minions. Orryn learned of a [lich](Lore_Lich.md) that dwelled deep within the complex: Caluurion, who in life was a member of a [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md) adventuring party who ventured into Fang Lair to slay the [dragon](Lore_Dragon.md) [Thurvokun](Lore_Thurvokun.md). Through necromantic ritual, Orryn compelled the lich to tell him of the research Caluurion had carried out in life. After failing to soul trap the [dragon's soul](Lore_Dragon_Souls.md), Caluurion obsessively studied Thurvokun's bodily remains until his eventual death. He then achieved a state of lichdom in order to continue his research. Learning of this, Orryn made plans to resurrect the dragon's skeletal remains himself, and hoped to locate the body of Thurvokun's [Dragon Priest](Lore_Dragon_Priest.md) as well. As it transpired, Thurvokun's Dragon Priest was Zaan the Scalecaller, and she was not present at Fang Lair. She had forsaken her dragon overlord long ago and turned to worship of [Peryite](Lore_Peryite.md).

The [Undaunted](Lore_Undaunted.md) soon learned of the Blackmarrow Cult's presence within Fang Lair after the complex was found to be teeming with undead and necromancers. [Yisareh](Lore_Yisareh.md) and a group of Undaunted ventured into its depths to confront the cult, freeing the trapped souls of the First Era adventurers in the process. The Undaunted defeated Orryn the Black in combat, forcing him to merge his [soul](Lore_Soul.md) with Thurvokun's reanimated skeleton. The dragon's body served as a vessel for his power, while also allowing Orryn to control his undead creation directly. Despite this transformation, he was ultimately defeated by the Undaunted, putting an end to the Blackmarrow Cult.

## Blackoath Clan
[Blackoath Clan](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Blackoath_Clan) was one of numerous [clans](Lore_Reachman_Clans.md) of [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md) that lived in [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md) during the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). They were known for their respect for the leatherworking skills.

## Blackwater Brigands
The [Blackwater Brigands](Lore_Blackwater_Brigands.md) were a group of pirates founded by an [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) woman named Selene.

The gang was founded in [Bravil](Lore_Bravil.md) in the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md). The group consisted of four individuals who made a solemn to let no one else join. Their plan was to hijack *The Bloated Float*, a ship docked at the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md) Waterfront, and search it for the Golden Galleon, a statuette made of solid gold. The ship had been purchased by an [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md) named Ormil and converted into an inn. The tale of the Golden Galleon was in fact a fabrication invented by Ormil to attract business to his inn. Unaware of this, the Blackwater Brigands took Ormil and the inn's bouncer hostage and assumed control of the ship circa [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433), three months after the group was formed. Unbeknownst to the Brigands, the [Hero of Kvatch](Lore_Hero_of_Kvatch.md) was asleep downstairs during this affair, and awoke to find the ship out at sea. The Hero single-handedly killed every member of the gang aside from Selene, who surrendered when confronted by the Hero's knowledge of their plans.<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_nb1)</sup> She was later taken into custody by the [Imperial Watch](Lore_Imperial_Watch.md) when the ship returned to the Imperial City.

The story of the Golden Galleon was seemingly passed down through Selene's descendants, with one of them reviving the group. Circa [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201), the Brigands were nothing more than a small bandit gang led by a woman named Celeste. The group still had ambitions to become pirates, and began searching for the legendary *Dead Man's Dread*, a ship once captained by [Cyrus](Lore_Cyrus.md), which was grounded on [Blackbone Isle](Lore_Blackbone_Isle.md) off the coast of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). The Brigands made camp at the wreck of the *Orphan's Tear* to carry out their search for the island, but were killed by the [Last Dragonborn](Lore_Last_Dragonborn.md), who was also searching for this legendary ship.

## Blackwood Company
The [Blackwood Company](Lore_Blackwood_Company.md) was a minor mercenary faction that began to operate in the [Imperial](Lore_Empire.md) province of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), out of the city of [Leyawiin](Lore_Leyawiin.md) and the [Blackwood Forest](Lore_Blackwood.md), during the latter days of the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), and simultaneous to the [Oblivion Crisis](Lore_Oblivion_Crisis.md).<sup>[[5]](#cite_note-Oblivion-5)</sup>

Initially comprised of former soldiers who failed to reclaim territory in [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md) for the [Emperor](Lore_Uriel_Septim_VII.md),<sup>[[6]](#cite_note-OBVantus-6)</sup> and comprised almost exclusively of [Beastfolk](Lore_Beastfolk.md),<sup>[[7]](#cite_note-Gt L-7)</sup> the Blackwood Company for a while emerged as a notorious yet effective rival and threat to the Cyrodilic chapter of the [Fighters Guild](Lore_Fighters_Guild.md), at one point coming dangerously close to tearing the Guild asunder.<sup>[[5]](#cite_note-Oblivion-5)</sup>

Unlike the Fighters Guild, the Blackwood Company had no objection to completing less scrupulous jobs and seemed to operate without moral qualms. Further, unlike the Fighters Guild, there was no limitations as to who could join; even individuals of questionable moral integrity and those with a criminal record could join the group providing that they had combat prowess.<sup>[[8]](#cite_note-ANGf F-8)</sup> Because of this, many Fighters Guild members defected to the Blackwood Company.<sup>[[9]](#cite_note-OBModryn-9)</sup><sup>[[10]](#cite_note-OBJa.27Fazir-10)</sup> They are notoriously much more reckless when completing contracts for clients. The Blackwood Company has no set of rules & regulations like the Fighters Guild and mercenaries can complete contracts in any way they see fit.<sup>[[8]](#cite_note-ANGf F-8)</sup>

This reckless band of mercenaries was infiltrated by the [Hero of Kvatch](Lore_Hero_of_Kvatch.md) on behalf of the Fighters Guild in 3E 433. Upon discovering the dangerous secret source of their strength, the Hero of Kvatch destroyed the Blackwood Company's machine which was extracting the [sap](Lore_Hist_Sap.md) from a sick [Hist tree](Lore_Hist.md), and the entire faction along with it.<sup>[[5]](#cite_note-Oblivion-5)</sup>

## Blades
The [Blades](Lore_Blades.md), also known as the **Blades Guard**, **Imperial Intelligence Service**, the **Arms of the Throne**, and as the **Order of Blades**, were members of an elite [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) order dedicated to the protection and service of the [Dragonborn](Lore_Dragonborn.md) [emperors](Lore_Tamrielic_Emperors.md) of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). Descended from the [Akaviri](Lore_Akaviri.md) **[Dragonguard](Lore_Dragonguard.md)**, who became the personal bodyguard of Emperor [Reman I](Lore_Reman_I.md), the Blades have since diversified into many areas of Imperial espionage, military, and diplomacy. Indeed, while a select few were appointed by the emperor to serve openly as diplomats or bodyguards, the majority of Blades agents acted covertly as couriers and spies. Serving as the emperor's eyes and ears, a vast network of Blades have influenced many critical events across Tamriel, such as reassembling the golem [Numidium](Lore_Numidium.md) and defeating [Dagoth Ur](Lore_Dagoth_Ur.md). The Blades were disbanded following the [Great War](Lore_Great_War.md) and largely killed off by the [Thalmor](Lore_Thalmor.md), but were reformed once again to assume their ancient role as dragon hunters during the [return](Lore_Return_of_the_Dragons.md) of [Alduin](Lore_Alduin.md).

## Bleak Veil‎‎
The [Bleak Veil](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Bleak_Veil) was a displaced group of necromancers from [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md). It was led by [Prince Hubalajad](Lore_Hubalajad.md)'s uncle Magnifico Bahraha, and relocated to [Hew's Bane](Lore_Hew%27s_Bane.md) sometime during the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md). The group began to build a royal tomb that was specifically designed to be used as a conduit of necrotic energy for rituals. Once Prince Hubalajad learned of his uncle's plans, he had the Bleak Veil sealed inside the tomb. The tomb was known as Bahraha's Gloom, and the incident became the Royal family's secret shame.

Unbeknownst to the outside world, the cult continued to survive. The cultists drew lots to determine who would be sacrificed for the ascension of the few. The seal which keeps them imprisoned needs to be recharged periodically, and there was once an entire order devoted to the task. By [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), the order dwindled to a single member.

## Bloodfire Cult
The [Bloodfire Cult](Lore_Bloodfire_Cult.md) was a cult of [Mehrunes Dagon](Lore_Mehrunes_Dagon.md) worshipers, mainly members of the nobility, that attempted to destroy the city of [Ravenwatch](Lore_Ravenwatch.md) around [2E 244](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_244). They were in operation since [2E 243](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_243). Every member of the Bloodfire cult was captured and sentenced to death.

## Blood Horkers
The **Blood Horkers** were a group of pirates which operated along the northern shores of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) during the [Fourth Era](Lore_Fourth_Era.md). The [Stormcloak Rebellion](Lore_Stormcloak_Rebellion.md) preoccupied the powers in the area, allowing the Blood Horkers to prey on merchants sailing through the [Sea of Ghosts](Lore_Sea_of_Ghosts.md) with little opposition. They were eventually decimated by mercenaries hired by the [East Empire Company](Lore_East_Empire_Company.md).

## Bloodmist Clan
The [Bloodmist Clan](Lore_Bloodmist_Clan.md) was a [vampiric](Lore_Vampire.md) [Orc](Lore_Orc.md) clan that lived in the Bloodworks Drainage of the Imperial Sewers beneath the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md) in the year [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), during the [Planemeld Obverse](Lore_Planemeld_Obverse.md).

## Bloodthorn Cult
The [Bloodthorn Cult](Lore_Bloodthorn_Cult.md) was a [necromantic](Lore_Necromancy.md) cult devoted to [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md) and led by a [Reachman](Lore_Reachman.md) named [Angof](Lore_Angof.md) the Gravesinger. It was established during the attempted [Planemeld](Lore_Planemeld.md) in [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md), at the time an independent kingdom ruled by Ard [Caddach](Lore_Caddach.md) of [Markarth](Lore_Markarth.md), although it welcomed initiates from other backgrounds as well. In fact, a significant portion of the cult was composed of [Breton](Lore_Breton.md) ruffians. Conversely, the Cult was seen with distrust among many people of the Reachfolk origins, and in fact was not only not supported, but also deemed problem by the court of Ard Caddach. The cult was known for harnessing dark nature magic through the cultivation of [Bloodthorn vines](Lore_Flora_B.md#Bloodthorn_Vines), and used them to corrupt the land and raise [zombies](Lore_Zombie.md).

## Bloodwraith Clan
The [Bloodwraith Clan](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Bloodwraith_Clan) (or **Bloodwraiths**) are a clan of [Dremora](Lore_Dremora.md) in service to [Boethiah](Lore_Boethiah.md). Bloodwraiths devote themselves to the purpose of challenging and testing champions in great tournaments. They fight in the [Dragonstar Arena](Lore_Dragonstar_Arena.md), where they sacrifice themselves and their mortal victims to honor the Prince. They are led by two powerful Dremora known only as the Shadow Knight and the Dark Mage, who lead the clan in never-ending arena contests.

## Blue Venom‎‎
The [Blue Venom](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Blue_Venom) were a notorious pirate crew consisting of the [Maormer](Lore_Maormer.md), the Sea Elves, active in the waters south of [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md) during the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md).

## Boldclaw Clan
[Boldclaw Clan](Lore_Boldclaw_Clan.md) was one of numerous [clans](Lore_Reachman_Clans.md) of [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md) that lived in [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md). They were known for their reverence to [Namira](Lore_Namira.md) and their peaceful ritual of Namira's Dance.

## Boneshaper Clan‎‎
The [Boneshaper Clan](Lore_Boneshaper_Clan.md) was one of the [clans](Lore_Reachman_Clans.md) of [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md) that lived in border [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md), a region in western [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) during the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md) in [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). While most of the larger clans maintained a tenuous peace, the Boneshapers were known for their hostile ways. They were among the uncommon clans that warred against their neighbors. Their raids typically provoked neighboring realms to retaliate indiscriminately against all Reachfolk.

[Shamans](Lore_Reachfolk_Shamans.md) of the Boneshaper Clan have developed an unusual number of rituals involving thorny plants known as the [Bloodthorn Vines](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Bloodthorn_Vines). The clan's name stems from their tradition of lacing or growing these vines through the skeletons of their ritual sacrifices. This plant does not appear to be native to the Reach, but they cultivate it expertly. When going on a raid or into battle they use these vines to create effigies, shaping the plants into rough mockeries of life. Although the Boneshaper Clan forbids the [necromancy](Lore_Necromancy.md), certain rituals involve the dead. They were feared by the travelers and their clan symbols were well known. Nords considered them the worst kind of shamans, and seen them with more contempt than they seen necromancers.

Under the leadership of [Kevinne Blightheart](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Kevinne_Blightheart), they allied with two other Reachfolk clans: the [Rageclaws](Lore_Rageclaw_Clan.md) and the [Stonetalons](Lore_Stonetalon_Clan.md) and signed the treaty on 3rd of the Frost Fall in 2E 582. The clans aligned themselves with the [Cult of the Black Worm](Lore_Cult_of_the_Black_Worm.md), which promised power and blessings of [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md). and invaded [the Rift](Lore_The_Rift.md) in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582). Their forces surrounded the [Shor's Stone](Lore_Shor%27s_Stone.md), choked off passage between [Stony Basin](Lore_Stony_Basin.md) and the [Riften](Lore_Riften.md) valley, kidnapped local miners, and used tunnels as a site for their rituals. Ambre Gnarltree and Mael Rotvine of the Boneshapers guarded two Nordic relics, Darkhammer's Amulet and Fireheart's Medallion, which were used to seal the chambers where the ritual was performed. Although they were killed by the agent of the Ebonheart Pact the ritual was successful. Together with other Reachfolk and the Worm Cult, they managed to resurrect [Sinmur](Lore_Sinmur.md)'s spirit. Soon afterward their allies of the Rageclaw Clan stormed the [Fallowstone Hall](Lore_Fallowstone_Hall.md) and stole [Wuuthrad](Lore_Wuuthrad.md).

They also contacted the agents of the [Daggerfall Covenant](Lore_Daggerfall_Covenant.md). A clan matron Linele Skullcarver kept contact with a [Redguard](Lore_Redguard.md) member of the Covenant Lolann, though ultimately both were discovered by Aera Earth-Turner of the Ebonheart Pact and later slain by the King's Arrow per her request.

Ultimately the Reachmen alliance was defeated, however. Their allied forces led by [Stral Blackthroat](Lore_Stral_Blackthroat.md) were vanquished in the [Vernim Woods](Lore_Vernim_Woods.md), and their attack on the Boulderfall Pass was stopped. Their chieftain Kevinne, together with other clan leaders was defeated by the [King's Arrow](Lore_The_Vestige.md) at the encampment west of Boulderfall Pass, as per request of dying [Ebonheart Pact](Lore_Ebonheart_Pact.md) soldier Melril. The future of the clan is unknown, but their invasion of the Rift was thwarted. Worm Cult persisted after the defeat of the Reachfolk, but they also were defeated eventually.

## Brackenleaf's Briars
[Brackenleaf's Briars](Lore_Brackenleaf%27s_Briars.md) are protectors of the heart of [Brackenleaf](Lore_Brackenleaf_(tree).md) and followers of the way of the hunt.

## Brewers Guild
The [Brewers Guild](Lore_Brewers_Guild.md) is an officially sanctioned guild. As their name implies, they employ brewers from across the [Empire](Lore_Empire.md).

During the [Akaviri Potentate](Lore_Akaviri_Potentate.md) in [2E 321](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_321), [Versidue-Shaie](Lore_Versidue-Shaie.md) gave his approval for the [Guild Act](Lore_Guild_Act.md), which sanctioned businesses such as the Brewers Guild. They were hence protected by the Empire of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), even into the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), but would be required to pay them if they wanted to expand their influence. The Empire had subsequently strengthened since the Guild Act was passed. [Seryn the Merciful](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Saint_Seryn_the_Merciful) is the [Dunmeri](Lore_Dunmer.md) Patron [Saint](Lore_Temple_Saints.md) of brewers.

## Bright-Throat Tribe
The **Bright-Throat Tribe** (**Wasseek-haleel** in [Jel](Lore_Jel.md)) is a tribe of coastal [Argonians](Lore_Argonian.md) native to [Murkmire](Lore_Murkmire.md). The tribe is influential in the region, and brokers alliances with their neighbors through a complex system of bonding rituals. They live in Bright-Throat Village, where their [Hist](Lore_Hist.md) tree is located. The Tribe is mainly made out of artisans and its members are also known to have a preternatural talent for the arts of merchants, diplomats and woodcarvers.

They are hospitable to all, even outsiders. Their scales are brightly colored.

## Briricca Company of Cyrodiil
The [Briricca Company of Cyrodiil](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Briricca_Company) was a company operating in [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) during the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md). Not much is known about their trade, but an agent of the company had deep knowledge of [dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) [slavery and slave trade](Lore_Slavery.md#Dunmer).

## Brotherhood of Destruction
The [Brotherhood of Destruction](Lore_Brotherhood_of_Destruction.md) was a cult of [Mehrunes Dagon](Lore_Mehrunes_Dagon.md), which existed from [2E 115](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_115) to [2E 140](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_140), composed primarily of the poor inhabitants of the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md). The Brotherhood managed to remain relatively secret for five years as their numbers grew. They rose to notoriety when they launched an attack against the middle-class merchants in the city in [2E 120](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_120). Many trade routes were crippled when key merchants disappeared, only to be found tortured to death. The methodology of the [Order of the Waking Flame](Lore_Order_of_the_Waking_Flame.md) was compared to the one of the Brotherhood and described as patient. They were content to wait and hide their activities until the right moment to strike. Once their plans unfolded, cult activity became sporadic, covert, and restrained. The more active the cult became the bloodier and more disastrous activities came to light eventually, however.

## Brotherhood of Seth
The [Brotherhood of Seth](Lore_Brotherhood_of_Seth.md) (also known as the **Temple of Sethiete**) is a temple of worship for the deity known as [Seth](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Seth). They were prominently active throughout the [Imperial Simulacrum](Lore_Imperial_Simulacrum.md) in city-states such as [Camlorn](Lore_Camlorn.md) and [Silvenar](Lore_Silvenar.md), or smaller settlements such as [Ein Meirvale](Lore_Ein_Meirvale.md) and [Stoneforest](Lore_Stoneforest.md). In that time, the brotherhood held vast power over the city-state of [Gideon](Lore_Gideon.md), in the western corner of [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md).

## Brotherhood of the Fang
The [Brotherhood of the Fang](Lore_Brotherhood_of_the_Fang.md) is one of many [Khajiiti](Lore_Khajiit.md) clerical orders. The Lunar Clergy comprises various monastic orders, including the Brotherhood of the Fang, the [Broken Paw](Lore_Broken_Paw.md), the [Order of the Crescent](Lore_Order_of_the_Crescent.md), and the Order of the Claw. While much remains unknown about the Brotherhood of the Fang, it was active during [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582).

## Bull-Heart Warriors
[Bull-Heart Warriors](Lore_Bull-Heart_Warriors.md) were one of the numerous [groups](Lore_Reachman_Clans.md) of [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md) that lived in [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md) during the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). They were active in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), during the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md).

Bull-Heart Warriors were known to wear sallets that were partially made of bull skulls during their Horned Triumph ritual. They shared the usage of the bull imagery with another group of Reachfolk, the [Dreadhorn Clan](Lore_Dreadhorn_Clan.md), who were known for their alliance with [Minotaurs](Lore_Minotaur.md).

## Buoyant Armigers
The [Buoyant Armigers](Lore_Buoyant_Armigers.md) were a small military order of the [Tribunal Temple](Lore_Tribunal_Temple.md), exclusively dedicated to and answering to Lord [Vivec](Lore_Vivec_(god).md). The Buoyant Armigers patterned themselves on Vivec's heroic spirit of exploration and adventure, and sought to emulate his mastery of the varied arts of personal combat, chivalric courtesy, and subtle verse. They served the Temple as champions and [knights](Lore_Knights.md) -errant, and were friendly rivals of the more solemn [Ordinators](Lore_Ordinators.md). The majority of members who served in the order hailed from [House Redoran](Lore_House_Redoran.md), as their ideals were closely related, though some members hailed from other Houses, and some weren't even [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md).

## Burska Clan
The [Burska Clan](Lore_Burska_Clan.md) were one of the [Orc](Lore_Orc.md) clans of [Wrothgar](Lore_Wrothgar.md). Little is known about them, except for their profound oral traditions, which were considered surprisingly accurate. They possessed knowledge about the location of the legendary relic, Uzdabikh's Helm, worn by the Orcish hero [Uzdabikh](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Uzdabikh) during the [Battle of Fharun Pass](Lore_Wars.md#Battle_of_Fharun_Pass). They asserted that it was last seen in the vicinity of [Sorrow](Lore_Sorrow.md) in northern [Wrothgar](Lore_Wrothgar.md), and their assertion proved accurate.

## References
1. [^](#cite_ref-1) [Knight-Paladin Gelebor](Skyrim_Knight-Paladin_Gelebor.md)'s dialogue regarding the Betrayed in *[Skyrim](Skyrim_Skyrim.md): [Dawnguard](Skyrim_Dawnguard.md)*
2. [^](#cite_ref-2) Appearance of the [Black Dart Gang](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Black_Dart_Gang) at [Zainsipilu](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Zainsipilu) in [ESO](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Online)
3. [^](#cite_ref-3) [Narisa Adus](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Tribunal:Narisa_Adus)' dialogue during [The Black Dart Gang](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Tribunal:The_Black_Dart_Gang) in *[Morrowind](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Morrowind:Morrowind): [Tribunal](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Tribunal:Tribunal)*
4. [^](#cite_ref-4) Events of [The Black Dart Gang](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Tribunal:The_Black_Dart_Gang) in *[Morrowind](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Morrowind:Morrowind): [Tribunal](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Tribunal:Tribunal)*
5. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-Oblivion_5-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-Oblivion_5-1)***</sup><sup>***[c](#cite_ref-Oblivion_5-2)***</sup> Events of *[Oblivion](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Oblivion)*
6. [^](#cite_ref-OBVantus_6-0) [Vantus Prelius](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Vantus_Prelius)' dialogue in *[Oblivion](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Oblivion)*
7. [^](#cite_ref-Gt L_7-0) [*Guide to Leyawiin*](Lore_Guide_to_Leyawiin.md) — [Alessia Ottus](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Alessia_Ottus)
8. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-ANGf F_8-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-ANGf F_8-1)***</sup> [*A New Guild for Fighters?*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:A_New_Guild_for_Fighters%3F)
9. [^](#cite_ref-OBModryn_9-0) [Modryn Oreyn](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Modryn_Oreyn)'s dialogue in *[Oblivion](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Oblivion)*
10. [^](#cite_ref-OBJa.27Fazir_10-0) [Ja'Fazir](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Ja%27Fazir)'s dialogue in *[Oblivion](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Oblivion)*