#  Foreign Adventures, Part 2

| Book Information | | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Seen In: | - [Elder Scrolls Online](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:The_Black_Fin:_Foreign_Adventures,_Part_2) ([Murkmire](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Murkmire_(DLC))) | | |
| Up | *[The Black Fin: Foreign Adventures](Lore_The_Black_Fin__Foreign_Adventures.md)* | | |
| Prev. | *[Part 1](Lore_The_Black_Fin__Foreign_Adventures,_Part_1.md)* | Next | *[Part 3](Lore_The_Black_Fin__Foreign_Adventures,_Part_3.md)* |

[Keshu](Lore_Keshu.md)
The Black Fin: Foreign Adventures, Part 2 **by [Mee-See](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Mee-See), Squire and Personal Aide to Keshu the Black Fin** *The tale of Keshu the Black Fin's campaigns with the Ebonheart Pact* *
---
Now, the declaration of the formation of the [Ebonheart Pact](Lore_Ebonheart_Pact.md) and the abolition of [Argonian](Lore_Argonian.md) slavery didn't result in the immediate cessation of all [Dark Elf](Lore_Dunmer.md) slaver activity. It would take almost a full year for most of the Dark Elf provinces and holdings to comply with the order of the [Tribunal](Lore_Tribunal.md), and even then there were Dark Elf [Houses](Lore_Great_Houses.md) that refused to accept the new accords. This resulted in a few awkward situations for [Keshu](Lore_Keshu_the_Black_Fin.md) and her Black Fin Legion as it toured the land of Morrowind as the initial Argonian representatives to the alliance.

We met with a good amount of fear and hatred during those early days of the alliance. Some Dark Elves became very uncomfortable when a heavily armed force of Argonians approached their town or village. At these, we were turned away at best or attacked by settlements with sizable militias. Others, though, having heard the story of the Battle of Ebonheart, appeared grateful for our help and were happy to welcome us into their homes. While such treatment is much more common now, back then it was nearly unheard of, and we were both surprised and thankful for every friendly face we encountered.

We spent that first year of the alliance in Dark Elf territory, making our presence known and working to make sure that all of the tenets of the agreement were adhered to. We also took in many of the newly freed Argonians, giving the ones who decided not to return to [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md) or try to make a go of it as free Saxhleel in [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md) an immediate purpose and a place to belong. In this way, the Black Legion continued to grow even as it traveled throughout Morrowind.

Eventually, we arrived at Mournhold as guests of the Tribunal. We spent nearly a month camped outside the city and regularly met with [Almalexia](Lore_Almalexia.md) and other important Dark Elf and [Nord](Lore_Nord.md) officials. Keshu participated in discussions to bolster the defense of the Pact by forming an "army of the alliance," which would include forces donated by each of the member nations. As we were looking for a purpose, Keshu volunteered the Black Fin Legion to serve as the backbone of the new allied army. In time, Keshu would become not only a war hero, but one of the foremost generals leading Pact forces.

Before that initial year had ended, Keshu and the Black Legion would prove their worth to the Pact by once again saving the day. This time, it was to deal with raiders crossing the mountains from the west. Rumors abounded that the raiders were either funded by the [Daggerfall Covenant](Lore_Daggerfall_Covenant.md) or were Covenant soldiers in disguise, but we were never able to prove that. When reports of a large band of raiders attacking Dark Elf settlements in western Morrowind reached Mournhold, Keshu offered to take the Pact army on a hunting expedition.

Keshu's force consisted of mostly Black Fin legionnaires, bolstered by a contingent of Nord soldiers and a squadron of Dark Elf mages and healers. We moved quickly, following the path of destruction left by the raiders until we finally caught them at Indrano Pass. Keshu divided our forces, sending half of our contingent around to cut off the raiders' escape path into the mountains, while the rest of our troops formed an arrowhead and advanced on the raiders' position. Instead of holding fast, the raiders decided to turn and run. That's when our troops swarmed out of the rocky foothills and we caught the raiders between us. After all the trouble they caused, we expected them to put up more of a fight.