# Places R

[Overview](Lore_Places.md) | [A](Lore_Places_A.md) [B](Lore_Places_B.md) [C](Lore_Places_C.md) [D](Lore_Places_D.md) [E](Lore_Places_E.md) [F](Lore_Places_F.md) [G](Lore_Places_G.md) [H](Lore_Places_H.md) [I](Lore_Places_I.md) [J](Lore_Places_J.md) [K](Lore_Places_K.md) [L](Lore_Places_L.md) [M](Lore_Places_M.md) [N](Lore_Places_N.md) [O](Lore_Places_O.md) [P](Lore_Places_P.md) [Q](Lore_Places_Q.md) R [S](Lore_Places_S.md) [T](Lore_Places_T.md) [U](Lore_Places_U.md) [V](Lore_Places_V.md) [W](Lore_Places_W.md) [X](Lore_Places_X.md) [Y](Lore_Places_Y.md) [Z](Lore_Places_Z.md) | [Maps](Lore_Maps.md)
---

## Ragnthar
[Ragnthar](Lore_Ragnthar.md) is a [Dwemer ruin](Lore_Dwemer_Ruins.md) that exists outside space and time. It is believed to have once been built into the mountains of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md) until the Dwemer performed a "Temporospatial Claudication", a twisting of time and space, and entering it means to cross a threshold that leaves [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md). It has multiple entrances throughout Tamriel.

## Ragnvald
[Ragnvald](Lore_Ragnvald.md) is an ancient [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) ruin in the [Druadach Mountains](Lore_Druadach_Mountains.md), in the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). It was once a temple settlement controlled by the [Dragon Cult](Lore_Dragon_Cult.md) and led by the [Dragon Priest](Lore_Dragon_Priest.md), [Otar the Mad](Lore_Otar_the_Mad.md) until he was overthrown by two heroes of legend, Saerek and Torsten.

## Raldbthar
[Raldbthar](Lore_Raldbthar.md) is an ancient [dwemer ruin](Lore_Dwemer_Ruins.md) found on the slopes of [the Pale](Lore_The_Pale.md), in the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). Built amidst the snowy heights of [Shearpoint](Lore_Shearpoint.md), Raldbthar was once a powerful city-state that served as the primary source for the blue crystal, [Aetherium](Lore_Aetherium.md). It was one of four city-states in a pocket empire that spanned across modern-day Skyrim, led by the [Kragen Clan](Lore_Kragen.md) of [Arkngthamz](Lore_Arkngthamz.md). Raldbthar is one of four cities that contains a great lift to Mzark Cavern in the underground world of [Blackreach](Lore_Blackreach.md).

## Ravan
[Ravan](Lore_Ravan.md) (also spelled **Raven**) is a large island in the [Eltheric Ocean](Lore_Eltheric_Ocean.md), south of the [Sea of Pearls](Lore_Sea_of_Pearls.md), that is possibly considered a part of the [Yokudan](Lore_Yokuda.md) archipelago. The similarly sized island of [Nalonga](Lore_Nalonga.md) neighbors it to the northwest. Between them is [Asil Yelir](Lore_Asil_Yelir.md) and to Ravan's west is [Siuol Yelir](Lore_Siuol_Yelir.md).

## Raven Rock
[Raven Rock](Lore_Raven_Rock.md) is a city located on the southern coast of [Solstheim](Lore_Solstheim.md), in the [Hirstaang Forest](Lore_Hirstaang_Forest.md). It was founded in [3E 427](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_427) as a colony of the [East Empire Company](Lore_East_Empire_Company.md).

## Raven Spring
[Raven Spring](Lore_Raven_Spring.md) is a small village in [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md), located in the foothills of the [Wrothgarian Mountains](Lore_Wrothgarian_Mountains.md) near the border of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md). Raven Spring is mentioned in the historical-fiction series, [King Edward](Lore_King_Edward.md), in which the [titular character](Lore_Edward.md) and his companions travel to a village of [dragons](Lore_Dragon.md) in a high meadow near Raven Spring.

## Ravenwatch
[Ravenwatch](Lore_Ravenwatch.md) was a city that was nearly destroyed by [Dagon](Lore_Mehrunes_Dagon.md) cultists known as the [Bloodfire Cult](Lore_Bloodfire_Cult.md) around [2E 243](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_243).<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-Dtt A-1)</sup>

## Ravennian Forest
The [Ravennian Forest](Lore_Ravennian_Forest.md) is a forest near [Anticlere](Lore_Anticlere.md) in [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md). It is located close to both [Cryngaine Field](Lore_Cryngaine_Field.md) and [Yeorth Burrowland](Lore_Yeorth_Burrowland.md). This forest is where the armies of [Daggerfall](Lore_Daggerfall_(kingdom).md) camped after the battle of [Reich Gradkeep](Lore_Reich_Gradkeep.md) and before the [Battle of Cryngaine Field](Lore_Battle_of_Cryngaine_Field.md).

## Rawl'kha
[Rawl'kha](Lore_Rawl%27kha.md) is a [Khajiiti](Lore_Khajiit.md) city in western [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md), on the border with [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md). It is found in the [Reaper's March](Lore_Reaper%27s_March.md) borderlands between the two provinces. It's located on the banks of the [Crescent River](Lore_Crescent_River.md) in northern [Jodewood](Lore_Jodewood.md), southwest of [Dune](Lore_Dune.md). The city is home to Rawl'kha Temple, also called the House of the Dance. Although not the largest, this temple [devoted to the Two-Moons Dance](Lore_Temple_of_Two-Moons_Dance.md) is considered to be the most culturally significant Khajiiti temple in northern Elsweyr.

## The Reach
[The Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md) (also known as **Karth**) is a geographic region surrounded by [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md), [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) and [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md). Its territory once extended into High Rock, but that portion was split off to create the [Western Reach](Lore_Western_Reach.md) during the late [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md) and has remained separate ever since. The region was historically inhabited by the native, [Daedra](Lore_Daedra.md) -worshipping [Reachmen](Lore_Reachmen.md). Control of the Reach has changed hands between the Reachmen, [Nords](Lore_Nord.md), and even the [Cyrodilics](Lore_Imperial.md) numerous times over the centuries in various conflicts, and the Reachmen became well-known for resisting foreign rule by using ancient magic and an intimate knowledge of the landscape to their advantage in guerrilla warfare and espionage tactics.

In the [Fourth Era](Lore_Fourth_Era.md), the Reach is the southwestern [hold](Lore_Hold.md) of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). Near the southwestern corner, the capital [Markarth](Lore_Markarth.md), formerly a [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md) stronghold, emerges from the living rock of the [Druadach Mountains](Lore_Druadach_Mountains.md), which transition into the [Jerall Mountains](Lore_Jerall_Mountains.md) near the hold's southeast corner. The [Karth River](Lore_Karth_River.md) begins in the southern region and drains the mountains, running like a deep gouge through the middle of the hold called the [Karth River Canyon](Lore_Karth_River.md). Settlements such as [Karthwasten](Lore_Karthwasten.md) and [Old Hroldan](Lore_Old_Hroldan.md) can be found along the Karth, with the [Sundered Hills](Lore_Sundered_Hills.md) bordering [Whiterun](Lore_Whiterun_Hold.md)'s [Tundra Plateau](Lore_Tundra_Plateau.md) to the east. The peaks of the Druadach range lie to the west of it, and high bluffs typically rise on the east leading to grassland and tundra. The Reachmen constitute the demographic majority of the Reach and its various settlements, and an [Orc](Lore_Orc.md) stronghold can be found in the steppes of the mountains in the south of the hold.

## Reachwater River
The [Reachwater River](Lore_Reachwater_River.md) is one of the waterways within [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md) region. It originates to the southeast of the [Briar Rock Ruins](Lore_Briar_Rock_Ruins.md) and to the west of [Vateshran Hollows](Lore_Vateshran_Hollows.md). Notably, the entrance to Reachwater Rock, the tomb of Archmage [Gauldur](Lore_Gauldur.md), is concealed behind one of its cascading waterfalls. Both it and the Reachwater Cavern, where the tomb is located, are named after the river. The river's course eventually concludes as it joins the [Karth River](Lore_Karth_River.md) further north, south of [Karthspire](Lore_Karthspire.md) and the [Sky Haven Temple](Lore_Sky_Haven_Temple.md). Among the numerous [Forsworn](Lore_Forsworn.md) camps, one was prominently situated along the river's shore.

## Realm of the Hist
The [realm of the Hist](Lore_Realm_of_the_Hist.md) is said to be a mysterious realm of [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md). It is a lush world, filled with sentient trees. Relatives of these trees include the [Hist](Lore_Hist.md) of [Mundus](Lore_Mundus.md) and the trees of [Umbriel](Lore_Umbriel.md). The Hist supposedly came to [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) from this realm in the [Dawn Era](Lore_Dawn_Era.md). The realm is inhabited by [Wisperills](Lore_Wisperill.md), colorful luminescent films that dance in the air.

Tamrielic mythology states that, despite the Hists' neutrality, the realm of the Hist was mostly destroyed as the [Ehlnofey](Lore_Ehlnofey.md) war passed over it. A small corner of the realm survived and became [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md), but the rest was sunk beneath the sea. This may imply that Black Marsh is a fragment of the realm, which was somehow sundered by the creation of Mundus.

## Realm of the Iron Atronachs
The [realm of the Iron Atronachs](Lore_Realm_of_the_Iron_Atronachs.md) is an unnamed volcanic realm that drifts silently through the void of [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md). The realm is said to resemble a molten hellscape: impossibly dense and boiling with malice. It is the home of the [Iron Atronachs](Lore_Iron_Atronach.md), which are produced there in abundance.

It might be assumed that this realm is a 'collective realm' similar to [Infernace](Lore_Infernace.md), created as an extension of its Iron Atronach inhabitants. If so, the realm would be rather mundane and uniform in appearance.

This realm is well known to [conjurers](Lore_Conjuration.md) due to the ability to summon subservient atronachs from there. However, few conjurers dare to call upon these towering behemoths due to their relentless appetite for destruction.

## Reaper's March
[Reaper's March](Lore_Reaper%27s_March.md) is a region connecting the jungles of northeastern [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md) with the rolling plains of northwestern [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md). The northwestern woodlands are called simply the [Northern Woods](Lore_Northern_Woods.md), which give way to [Jodewood](Lore_Jodewood.md) in the south. Eastern Reaper's March is called [Dawnmead](Lore_Dawnmead.md). The [Strid River](Lore_Strid_River.md) forms its northern border, separating it from western [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). It is home to the cities of [Arenthia](Lore_Arenthia.md), [Rawl'kha](Lore_Rawl%27kha.md), and [Dune](Lore_Dune.md), as well as some smaller settlements and [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) ruins. The walking city [Falinesti](Lore_Falinesti.md) has been known to spend the autumn in the Northern Woods west of Rawl'kha.

The March has a unique mixture of [Bosmeri](Lore_Bosmer.md) and [Khajiiti](Lore_Khajiit.md) culture, along with some [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) influence. The [senche-tigers](Lore_Senche-Tiger.md) native to the area are believed by the locals to have mystical alchemical properties. Despite the dry conditions of Reaper's March, the Khajiit have managed to farm and harvest [moon sugar](Lore_Moon_Sugar.md) in the area for generations through extensive irrigation projects. While bandits and [skooma](Lore_Skooma.md) smuggling are common, [Daedra](Lore_Daedra.md) worship is minimal. Khajiiti temples in the region are noted for their awe-inspiring beauty, though there are many other monuments and grand structures which are decayed and ruined.

## Rebel's Cairn
The [Rebel's Cairn](Lore_Rebel%27s_Cairn.md) is an ancient site revered by the [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md), serving as the burial grounds for their ancient hero and king, [Faolan the Red Eagle](Lore_Red_Eagle.md). It is located in the northern [Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md), between the [Sundered Towers](Lore_Sundered_Towers.md) and [Bleakwind Bluff](Lore_Bleakwind_Bluff.md).

Within the tomb, two notable sections held significance. The first area, also known as the **Pedestal Cavern** was unembellished and modest, serving as the repository for Red Eagle's renowned sword, the [Red Eagle's Fury](Lore_Red_Eagle%27s_Fury.md). In contrast, the central chamber, also referred to as the **Red Eagle's Tomb**, believed by some sources to house both the pedestal with the sword and the sarcophagus, featured intricate hewn murals adorning its walls.

## Red Eagle Redoubt
The fortified complex of the Red Eagle's stronghold encompassed the [Red Eagle Redoubt](Lore_Red_Eagle_Redoubt.md) and the twin towers situated in the Red Eagle Ridge, called the **Sundered Towers**. One of these towers was also known as the **Red Eagle Tower**. The towers were accessible via the underground passage known as the **Red Eagle Ascent**, which connected the Red Eagle's Redoubt with the Red Eagle Ridge. Within the complex, there were additional facilities such as the sacred cavern and a formidable magical forge. [Rebel's Cairn](Lore_Rebel%27s_Cairn.md), which served as [Faolan's](Lore_Red_Eagle.md) tomb, could also be found in close proximity to the fortress.

## Red Mountain
*Wrong, mortal. Dagoth-Ur will enjoy your company, over the millenia [sic]...*
—A mysterious voice within Red Mountain speaking to the [Eternal Champion](Lore_Eternal_Champion.md) [Red Mountain](Lore_Red_Mountain.md) ([Dragon](Lore_Dragon_Language.md): *Sahqo-Strunmah*, "Red-Mountain"; [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer_Language.md): *Vvardenfell*, "City of the Strong Shield"), also known as **Mount Vvardenfell** and **Dagoth-Ur** ([/ˈdeɪɡɒθ ˈɜːr/](https://www.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:IPA/English) ***day** -goth UR* or ([/ˈdæɡəθər/](https://www.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:IPA/English) ***dag** -əth-ər* Link ⏵),<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_nb1)</sup> is a massive volcano that dominates the island of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md) in [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). Prior to its most recent [catastrophic eruption](Lore_Red_Year.md), it was the highest mountain in all of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). On a clear day, Red Mountain's peak could be seen from the city of [Mournhold](Lore_Mournhold.md), some 250 miles to the south. The mountain is generally considered the most dangerous region in Vvardenfell, and has erupted at least thrice in history: the [Sun's Death](Lore_Sun%27s_Death.md) event of [1E 668](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_668), the Days of Fire in [2E 882](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_882), and the [Red Year](Lore_Red_Year.md) of [4E 5](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_5) (although it was very close to erupting during [Clavicus Vile](Lore_Clavicus_Vile.md)'s plot to drain [Vivec](Lore_Vivec_(god).md)'s power in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582)). The Red Year eruption in particular was so devastating that Red Mountain's height was permanently reduced, and the [Throat of the World](Lore_Throat_of_the_World.md) claimed the title of Tamriel's highest peak from then on.

The [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md) settled in the vicinity of Red Mountain as early as the [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md), giving it the name *Vvardenfell*. In the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md), the [Battle of Red Mountain](Lore_Battle_of_Red_Mountain.md) occurred on its slopes, resulting in the outright disappearance of all Dwemer and the rise of the [Tribunal](Lore_Tribunal.md). This event likely coincided with the volcano's first major eruption, which blanketed the skies of Tamriel with ash for an entire year. Near the end of the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), [Voryn Dagoth](Lore_Dagoth_Ur.md) (believed to have died at the Battle of Red Mountain) awoke within its bowels and challenged the power of the Tribunal, taking on the name "Dagoth Ur", which soon became applied to the whole mountain due to Dagoth's presence. Access to Red Mountain became restricted in the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), when the Tribunal built the [Ghostfence](Lore_Ghostfence.md) around the perimeter of the mountain to contain the [Ash Blight](Lore_The_Blight.md) originating from within. The only way inside without the use of magic was through [Ghostgate](Lore_Ghostgate.md) in the south. Due to the proliferation of [disease](Lore_Corprus.md) -carrying ash storms, few dared to venture past the Ghostfence. It was known, however, that four ancient [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md) Citadels were hidden in the region, three of which were residences for Dagoth Ur's most trusted ash vampires; the fourth was the lair of Dagoth Ur himself. Even though this area was extremely dangerous, [malachite](Lore_Malachite.md) and [ebony](Lore_Ebony.md) mines were set up inside the Ghostfence, under [Imperial](Lore_Third_Empire.md) guard or by enterprising [Ashlanders](Lore_Ashlanders.md). Ultimately, Dagoth Ur was defeated in his subterranean lair in [3E 427](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_427) by the [Nerevarine](Lore_Nerevarine.md), dispelling the supernatural ash storms. However, the disappearance of [Vivec](Lore_Vivec.md) led to the destabilization of the suspended [meteor](Lore_Meteors.md) [Baar Dau](Lore_Baar_Dau.md), which impacted [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md) in 4E 5, triggering the most powerful eruption of Red Mountain to date. Known as the Red Year, the eruption caused widespread death and destruction along with a mass exodus of Morrowind's inhabitants.

The geography of Red Mountain is ever-changing. In the wake of an eruption, lava channels form deep ravines called *[foyada](Lore_Foyada.md)*, which, once cooled, are used as roads by the Ashlanders. Bubbling lava pools dot the landscape, fed by magma from deep within the earth. The harsh climate of Red Mountain's slopes makes it accommodating to strange creatures that thrive in volcanic environments, including [ash hoppers](Lore_Ash_Hopper.md), [fetcherflies](Lore_Fetcherfly.md), and [shalks](Lore_Shalk.md), as well as hardy vegetation such as [scathecraw](Lore_Scathecraw.md). [Skylamps](Lore_Skylamp.md) are known to fly alongside it. As the volcano is still active as of the [Fourth Era](Lore_Fourth_Era.md), it is unlikely that any populated settlements still exist in the region.

In the mythology of [the Towers](Lore_The_Towers.md), the Red Mountain was the Red Tower. The Tower's Stone was the [Heart of Lorkhan](Lore_Heart_of_Lorkhan.md), which was known as the First Stone, a focal point for the Tower's reality altering power, upon which the rules according to which the Tower shaped its domain, were inscribed. The First Stone and its Tower are said to have allowed [Mundus](Lore_Mundus.md) to exist without the full presence of the divine, and granted it a special kind of divinity, which is called "NIRN", the "consequence of variable [fate](Lore_Fate.md)". As with all Towers, Red Mountain was said to exist beyond the physical and in some sense apart, or detached, from ordinary space and time.

## Red Ring Road
The [Red Ring Road](Lore_Red_Ring_Road.md) circles [Lake Rumare](Lore_Lake_Rumare.md) and the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md).

## Redwater Spring
[Redwater Spring](Lore_Redwater_Spring.md), also known as the **Bloodspring of Lengeir's Feast**, is an underground font, formerly sacred to [Arkay](Lore_Arkay.md), now profaned and flowing with a blood-like substance.

## Reed River
The [Reed River](Lore_Reed_River.md) is a short river that has its source in the steep hillsides south of [Cheydinhal](Lore_Cheydinhal.md). It flows southeast and joins the [Corbolo River](Lore_Corbolo_River.md) in just a few miles. [Lake Poppad](Lore_Lake_Poppad.md) originally fed a tributary of the Reed River circa [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), although this stream had seemingly dried up by [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433). As of then, a shrine to [Vaermina](Lore_Vaermina.md) was located there.

## Reich Gradkeep
The previous name of the province of [Anticlere](Lore_Anticlere.md) in [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md).<sup>[[2]](#cite_note-TFOTU-2)</sup>

## Reich Parkeep
[Reich Parkeep](Lore_Reich_Parkeep.md) (also called **Reich Parthkeep** and **Selethis**) is a settlement in the northwestern section of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md), in the highlands near the [Velothi Mountains](Lore_Velothi_Mountains.md) and under the jurisdiction of [House Redoran](Lore_House_Redoran.md).

## Reman's Bluff
The [Reman's Bluff](Lore_Reman%27s_Bluff.md) is a ruined stronghold found in the region of [Grahtwood](Lore_Grahtwood.md), within the province of [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md). Reman's Bluff once contained an [Imperial Garrison](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md) that was established following the [Second Empire](Lore_Second_Empire.md)'s conquest over Valenwood. It was named after Emperor [Reman I](Lore_Reman_I.md). After the garrison was defeated by the local [Wood Orcs](Lore_Wood_Orcs.md), **Barkbite Stronghold** was founded here, and Reman's Bluff became home to the Barkbite Clan. The clan also established a [tin](Lore_Tin.md) mine, but their smiths found it to be a fussy metal to work with.

## Resdayn
An ancient name for [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md).<sup>[[3]](#cite_note-PGE3M-3)</sup>

## Revelry
The [Myriad Realms of Revelry](Lore_Revelry.md), also called the **Realms of Revelry** or **Revelry** for short, are a congeries of one hundred thousand pocket and sub-realms of [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md), created and ruled over by the [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Princes.md) of Indulgence, [Sanguine](Lore_Sanguine.md). The realms are used mainly as pleasure pockets, refashioned to meet the needs and desires of its visitants. As such, Sanguine exerts minimal control over them, which aligns perfectly with his preferences.

The waters found within the Realms of Revelry were documented in *Sanguine's Rites and Realms* by the Prisoner of the [Evergloam](Lore_Evergloam.md). This text documented a phenomenon in which visions of ill-fated, prince-less realms of Oblivion colliding with each other could be seen within the waters' reflections.

## The Rift
[The Rift](Lore_The_Rift.md) (sometimes called **Rift Hold**) is a large region in the southeastern portion of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) and one of the [Old Holds](Lore_Old_Holds.md), the eastern Skyrim territories isolated by geography and choice as the local [Nords](Lore_Nord.md) have stuck close to ancient traditions. The Rift is distinct for its temperate climate and autumn forest, thanks to the mountains surrounding it blocking extreme temperatures from the east and north. The capital of the hold is [Riften](Lore_Riften.md), formerly the epicenter of a vast trading network between Skyrim and [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md).

## Riften
[Riften](Lore_Riften.md) (sometimes called **Rifton**) is one of the nine major cities in the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), and is the hold capital of [the Rift](Lore_The_Rift.md). Built on the shores of [Lake Honrich](Lore_Lake_Honrich.md), nestled within the Fall Forest, Riften lies close to Skyrim's borders with [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) and [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md), and enjoys robust trade with the latter via the nearby pass through the [Velothi Mountains](Lore_Velothi_Mountains.md). Riften is also the home of the [Thieves Guild](Lore_Thieves_Guild.md) in Skyrim, and has become infamous as a town where the aspiring rogue or thief can rise among the criminal underworld.

## Rihad
[Rihad](Lore_Rihad.md) is one of the eight major cities in the province of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), situated in the southernmost point of the province, near the mouth of the [Brena River](Lore_Brena_River.md). Rihad is a port city occupied by the [Forebears](Lore_Forebears.md), the modern-day remnants of the [Ra Gada](Lore_Ra_Gada.md).

## Rim Territories
The [Rim Territories](Lore_Rim_Territories.md) (or simply known as **the Rim**) is a region within [Anequina](Lore_Anequina.md), in the province of [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md). As the name implies, the Rim Territories consists of the borderlands of Northern Elsweyr, around the regional capital of [Rimmen](Lore_Rimmen.md), the northwest hills and steppes, and the southern valleys. It is the namesake of the [Rim-Men](Lore_Rim-Men.md), a group of [Imperials](Lore_Imperial.md) that descend from the [Akaviri](Lore_Akaviri.md) of the [Second Empire](Lore_Second_Empire.md). This also includes the **Tenmar Borderlands** in the south.

## Rimfarlin
[Rimfarlin](Lore_Rimfarlin.md) is a duchy seemingly located somewhere on [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) during the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md).

## Rimmen
[Rimmen](Lore_Rimmen.md) ([Ta'agra](Lore_Ta%27agra.md): *Rim'kha*) is one of the eight major cities in [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md), serving as the modern capital of the northern kingdom of [Anequina](Lore_Anequina.md). The city is an oasis of lush greenery and flooded steppes in these northern badlands, supplied by the kingdom's ancient canalways and waterworks. Its year-long warmth and largely clear skies has made Rimmen a popular resort destination for people across Tamriel.

## Rindale
[Rindale](Lore_Rindale.md) is a settlement mentioned in *[Purloined Shadows](Lore_Purloined_Shadows.md)*.<sup>[[4]](#cite_note-Purloined_Shadows-4)</sup>

## Rivenspire
[Rivenspire](Lore_Rivenspire.md) is a region that forms the northern tip of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md). It is a gloomy place, with jagged rock formations punctuating the rather bleak lowlands. The towering, flinty crags, windswept moors, and narrow canyons strike many folk as oppressive, even threatening. The [King's Guard](Lore_King%27s_Guard.md) mountain range separates Rivenspire from the [Glenumbra](Lore_Glenumbra.md) and [Stormhaven](Lore_Stormhaven.md) regions to the south. Being far from the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md), Rivenspire has a reputation as the backwater of High Rock.

The [hillmen](Lore_Hillmen.md) are the people of Rivenspire,<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_Hill_Giants)</sup> who are shaped by its tortured landscape. Descriptions for the hillmen include "surly", "gloomy", "laconic", and having "little to say to strangers". They are also known for their "overactive imaginations". Much of the creatures of the region are also hostile. Hillmen hunters make a decent living off of the pelts of [wolves](Lore_Wolf.md) and [giant bat](Lore_Giant_Bat.md), as well as from [spider](Lore_Spider.md) venom. Restless spirits are known to haunt the region's forts, and rumors exist of "evil fog" where the souls of fallen sailors stir off the coast of Rivenspire.

Eyebright Feld forms the southwest area, [Westmark Moor](Lore_Westmark_Moor.md) forms the southeast, and the foggy northern coast is known as Boralis. The city of [Northpoint](Lore_Northpoint.md) is found in eastern Boralis. The city of [Shornhelm](Lore_Shornhelm.md) dominates northeastern Eyebright Feld, near the center of Rivenspire. Westmark Moor has no major cities, but there are several settlements, and it is well known for its burial grounds, including the legendary [Crypt of Hearts](Lore_Crypt_of_Hearts.md).

Much of Rivenspire's landscape was influenced by the failed metaphysical [Tower](Lore_Tower.md) of [Erokii](Lore_Erokii.md) (now known as the Doomcrag), which housed the Light of Life artifact. When it was built was unknown, but the request was made by [Anumaril](Lore_Anumaril.md), an [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) active during the time of the [Alessian Slave Rebellion](Lore_Alessian_Slave_Rebellion.md). The Ayleids who settled in Rivenspire described it as a "Land of Cold Rocks" when they arrived, and began to use the tower to change the barren wastelands of the region into one full of life. The Light of Life became the Lightless Remnant, a corrupting influence on the land when the natives that were there before the Ayleids settled Rivenspire attacked them and damaged the Light of Life, spreading a corrupting influence upon the land. This corrupting influence became further amplified when it was touched by vampires. Rivenspire would later be freed of its influence, and the Lightless Remnant would be transported to [Coldharbour](Lore_Coldharbour.md).

## Riverbridge
[Riverbridge](Lore_Riverbridge.md) is a settlement found in west-central [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md), in the Central Plains region and on the western banks of the [Thir River](Lore_Thir_River.md). It was a territory occupied by [House Hlaalu](Lore_House_Hlaalu.md).

## Riverhold
[Riverhold](Lore_Riverhold.md) ([Ta'agra](Lore_Ta%27agra.md): *Rawla-Kei*, "River-Land") is one of the eight major cities in the province of [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md), found along the streams and waterfalls of a river in the region of [Anequina](Lore_Anequina.md). The town is well known for their swarming, and overcrowded marketplaces, more than other city-states of a similar stature. People across the northern countryside flock to the markets of Riverhold, to sell their goods and trades from their carriages. The city-state is also known for being the gateway into Northern Elsweyr, from the province of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). Riverhold was one of the original sixteen kingdoms, known for their hard-working farmers.

## Riverpoint
[Riverpoint](Lore_Riverpoint.md) (also called **River Point**) is a town found in central [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), north of the city-states of [Taneth](Lore_Taneth.md) and [Rihad](Lore_Rihad.md).

## Riverwood
[Riverwood](Lore_Riverwood.md) is a logging town on the banks of the [White River](Lore_White_River.md) in [Whiterun Hold](Lore_Whiterun_Hold.md), at the western base of the [Throat of the World](Lore_Throat_of_the_World.md). It is located northeast of [Falkreath](Lore_Falkreath.md) and [Lake Ilinalta](Lore_Lake_Ilinalta.md), north of [Helgen](Lore_Helgen.md), and almost directly south of [Whiterun](Lore_Whiterun.md). Despite its seemingly prime location, the settlement doesn't receive many visitors. The famous [Guardian Stones](Lore_Guardian_Stones.md) lie to the southwest of town.

## Rkugamz
[Darkshade Caverns](Lore_Darkshade_Caverns.md) are located in the [Deshaan](Lore_Deshaan.md) region of mainland [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). It is the site of well-renowned [kwama](Lore_Kwama.md) egg mines owned by House Selos, and eggs harvested from them are prized by [Dunmeri](Lore_Dunmer.md) gourmets. Amidst a conflict over a rumored fortune between a group of thugs and House Selos, the kwama dug deeper into the caverns and uncovered the previously hidden [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md) ruins of **Rkugamz**.

The ecosystem of the cavern is rich, with the egg mines of the cavern having a large community of domesticated kwama. The depths of the cavern around the ruins of Rkugamz has a vibrant community of other creatures, such as [Alits](Lore_Alit.md) and [Netch](Lore_Netch.md), alongside the kwama that had previously inhabited the egg mines. Much of the plant life of the caverns is bioluminescent, including a plant by the same name, the [Darkshade Glowstalk](Lore_Darkshade_Glowstalk.md).

## Rockgrove
[Rockgrove](Lore_Rockgrove.md) (known as **Krona-Konu** to [Argonians](Lore_Argonians.md)), is a settlement located in the [Gloomire](Lore_Gloomire.md) region of southwest [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md), deep in [Blackwood](Lore_Blackwood.md); it lies southeast of [Gideon](Lore_Gideon.md) and northeast of [Soulrest](Lore_Soulrest.md).

It is a ruined city that is well known for its pre- [Duskfall](Lore_Duskfall.md) stonework. The Ca-Uxith tribe of [Argonians](Lore_Argonian.md) live in a nearby village and have been charged by their [Hist](Lore_Hist.md) to watch over the ancient [xanmeer](Lore_Xanmeer.md). The xanmeer of Rockgrove lies on top of an underground series of steam vents that explode into geysers. The stone-talkers of the tribe preserve the ruins and prevent their destruction in the event of the geysers becoming active.

## Rockguard
[Rockguard](Lore_Rockguard.md), also known as **Hutan-Tzel**, is a settlement located in the northwest area of [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md), specifically northwest of [Helstrom](Lore_Helstrom.md). It lies on the [Panther River](Lore_Panther_River.md), which flows in from the west through the provincial border.

## Rockpark
[Rockpark](Lore_Rockpark.md), also known as **Rockcreek**, is a town in southeastern [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md), located northeast of [Lilmoth](Lore_Lilmoth.md).

At some point prior to [3E 145](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_145), the town was ruled by Lord Prufrock and was known for producing raspberries and strange scraggly weeds. However, all businesses, stores, and guilds fled the town after it was subjected to a series of catastrophes, beginning with a pestilence that wiped out Rockpark's cash crops, followed by a plague and a witch's curse.

Seeing Lord Prufrock despair at the town's loss, his daughter Lady Greelina brought her pet [wombat](Lore_Wombat.md) to him and claimed that it was sacred to [Ius](Lore_Ius.md) the Extremely Agitated, God of Animals. Lord Prufrock asked the wombat for a single business to come to Rockpark and never leave, but the wombat instead had Ius create an equipment store that would block the palace gate and never go away. The royal family became trapped inside the palace and resorted to cannibalism, with the wombat ironically being one of the first to go.

The business blocking the palace gate was named the Unearthed Equipment Store, and was still in existence during the [Imperial Simulacrum](Lore_Imperial_Simulacrum.md). At that time, the town was ruled by Princess Dematea. It had a rivalry with the town of Seaspring, located far to the northwest. It was neighbored by several settlements, including Branchgrove to the north, and Lilmoth to the southwest.

## Root Sunder
[Root Sunder](Lore_Root_Sunder.md) is an [Elven](Lore_Mer.md) ruin in the [Grahtwood](Lore_Grahtwood.md) region of [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md), found along the road between [Elden Root](Lore_Elden_Root.md) and [Haven](Lore_Haven.md). Established in [2E 291](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_291), Root Sunder was intended to be a great city, built as an early attempt at colonizing Grahtwood. Its location was chosen based on the economic landscape of the period, designed so that it would function as a trading hub. Historians disagree on who exactly established the city. The majority of sources claim the settlers to be [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md), which would match the architecture and [Dawn Era](Lore_Dawn_Era.md) magic used in its construction. Others claim that they were [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md), which would fit better with the time period.

Faced with the daunting prospect of taming the wilds of Valenwood, the settlers attempted to use [Conjuration](Lore_Conjuration.md) magic to control the surrounding jungle and "grow" the city. The effort was proposed by the conjurer Arandore, and construction subsequently began in earnest. However, the jungle's wildlife became increasingly aggressive, and construction was forced to halt following the disappearance of every conjurer by [2E 292](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_292). Through their rituals, the conjurers has unwittingly bound the spirit of the jungle within the walls of Root Sunder, where it began to starve. Trapped within impervious [Welkynd Stones](Lore_Welkynd_Stone.md) and unable to acquire nutrients, the jungle took on a malevolent sentience. Calling itself "the Root Sunder" after the name of the settlement, this spirit sent roots to destroy the stonework and pull the city beneath the ground. The settlers within were killed and drained of nutrients, becoming skeletal undead abominations. The Root Sunder then slept, and wouldn't be woken again for several hundred years.

The location of this ruined city was eventually lost to time, and the subterranean ruins became home to [senche-cats](Lore_Senche-Cat.md), [spriggans](Lore_Spriggan.md) and [stranglers](Lore_Strangler.md). It was avoided by the [Bosmer](Lore_Bosmer.md), who noticed that the protruding roots were not the same as those of regular [graht-oaks](Lore_Graht-oak.md). In [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), following the formation of the first [Aldmeri Dominion](Lore_Aldmeri_Dominion.md), Root Sunder was rediscovered by a group of academics, the majority of whom were quickly killed upon entering the ruins. The sole survivor, an Altmer woman named Tandare, urged the Vestige to enter the ruins and help recover her colleague's research journals. However, the Root Sunder had been awakened by the researchers. No longer concerned with escaping the walls of its prison, it was content to lure mortals to their death within the ruins in order to feed. The Root Sunder attempted to draw the Vestige to their doom by projecting images of a researcher named Sirdor, who had died deep within the ruins after discovering the jungle's plight. The Vestige survived the Root Sunder's attacks after discovering the true fate of Sirdor, and managed to follow his notes and free the Root Sunder from the Welkynd Stones through the use of an "Attunement Stone". The spirit of the jungle subsequently departed the ruins, and the recovered journals were given to Tandare to bring to Elden Root.

## Rorikstead
[Rorikstead](Lore_Rorikstead.md) (also known as **Rorik's Steading**, or **Rorikhofkah** in the [Dragon Language](Lore_Dragon_Language.md)) is a small settlement in the Western Plains of [Whiterun Hold](Lore_Whiterun.md). Some variant of the name appears in many old records, with the earliest dated mention of it being in [2E 373](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_373), and another text placing it as possibly existing during the [Merethic](Lore_Merethic_Era.md) or [First](Lore_First_Era.md) Era. The traditional song of [Whiterun](Lore_Whiterun.md), "Ragnar the Red", refers to an "ole Rorikstead".

During the Skyrim Schism, Rorikstead and the rest of Whiterun Hold were part of Western Skyrim and owed fealty to the High King based in [Solitude](Lore_Solitude.md). In [2E 561](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_561), the wife and daughter of [Falkreath](Lore_Falkreath.md)'s Jarl [Hjurgol Skjoralmor](Lore_Hjurgol_Skjoralmor.md) stayed in the town on their journey to High King [Svargrim](Lore_Svargrim.md)'s coronation in Solitude, and were ambushed by a [giantess](Lore_Giant.md)' herd of [mammoths](Lore_Mammoth.md) shortly after. The twin brothers Roggvir and Fenrig hailed from the town and were called its protectors around [2E 578](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_578). Trade was still occurring between [Windhelm](Lore_Windhelm.md) and Rorikstead circa [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), despite owing allegiances to opposing High Kings.

The land around the settlement was purportedly barren around the time of the [Great War](Lore_Great_War.md). After the war, a local nobleman named Rorik purchased the land. He claims to have founded the settlement, and that it hasn't had a bad crop since. The local farmers make a living by trading their produce to merchants in Whiterun. The [dragon](Lore_Dragon.md) Nahagliiv, who was buried in a mound west of the settlement around the time of the [Dragon War](Lore_Dragon_War.md), was resurrected in [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201) by [Alduin](Lore_Alduin.md).

## Roscrea
**Roscrea** is an island that was conquered by [Uriel Septim V](Lore_Uriel_Septim_V.md) in [3E 271](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_271) during his travel between [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) and [Akavir](Lore_Akavir.md).

## Roseguard
[Roseguard](Lore_Roseguard.md) (historically called **Rosgard**) is a town found in southern [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), on the eastern shores of [Hubalajad's Bay](Lore_Hubalajad%27s_Bay.md) near the city-state of [Taneth](Lore_Taneth.md).

## Rotheran
[Rotheran](Lore_Rotheran.md) is a stronghold on the south coast of [Sheogorad](Lore_Sheogorad.md) island, in the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). Despite how remote and secluded it is, these ruins have been occupied throughout the eras, and it is a place with an evil reputation. The ruin's [propylon chamber](Lore_Magical_Transportation.md) links to [Indoranyon](Lore_Indoranyon.md) and Valenvaryon.

## Lake Rumare
[Lake Rumare](Lore_Lake_Rumare.md) is a large lake completely surrounding [City Isle](Lore_City_Isle.md) and the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md). It is connected to the sea by the [Niben River](Lore_Niben_River.md), and feeds the [Upper Niben](Lore_Upper_Niben.md) to the south. It is primarily inhabited by a dangerous variety of [Slaughterfish](Lore_Slaughterfish.md) known as [Rumare Slaughterfish](Lore_Rumare_Slaughterfish.md). The lake also gives its name to the [Rumare Bream](Lore_Rumare_Bream.md), a type of fish native to Cyrodiil.

Many phrases in the local vernacular refer to Lake Rumare, such as "throwing money into Lake Rumare" to save time instead of "visiting that dump (the Imperial City)".

## References
1. [^](#cite_ref-Dtt A_1-0) [*Dagonists Through the Ages*](Lore_Dagonists_Through_the_Ages.md) — [Larina Hanus](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Larina_Hanus), scholar on Daedric cults
2. [^](#cite_ref-TFOTU_2-0) [*The Fall of the Usurper*](Lore_The_Fall_of_the_Usurper.md) — [Palaux Illthre](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Palaux_Illthre)
3. [^](#cite_ref-PGE3M_3-0) [*Pocket Guide to the Empire, 3rd Edition: The Temple: Morrowind*](Lore_Pocket_Guide_to_the_Empire,_3rd_Edition_Morrowind.md) — [Imperial Geographical Society](Lore_Imperial_Geographical_Society.md), [3E 432](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_432)
4. [^](#cite_ref-Purloined_Shadows_4-0) [*Purloined Shadows*](Lore_Purloined_Shadows.md) — [Waughin Jarth](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Waughin_Jarth)