# Factions R

[Overview](Lore_Factions.md) | [A](Lore_Factions_A.md) [B](Lore_Factions_B.md) [C](Lore_Factions_C.md) [D](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_D) [E](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_E) [F](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_F) [G](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_G) [H](Lore_Factions_H.md) [I](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_I) [J](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_J) [K](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_K) [L](Lore_Factions_L.md) [M](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_M) [N](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_N) [O](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_O) [P](Lore_Factions_P.md) [Q](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_Q) R [S](Lore_Factions_S.md) [T](Lore_Factions_T.md) [U](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_U) [V](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_V) [W](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_W) [X](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_X) Y [Z](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Factions_Z)
---

## Ra Gada
The [Ra Gada](Lore_Ra_Gada.md) (sometimes spelled **Ra' Gada** or **Ra'Gada**) was the name given to the Yokudan "**Warrior Waves**" that left the doomed continent of [Yokuda](Lore_Yokuda.md) and sailed towards [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). This mass colonization occurred in four successive waves during the eighth and ninth centuries of the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md), and spanned approximately twenty eight years. The native [Goblins](Lore_Goblin.md), [Orcs](Lore_Orcs.md), [Nedes](Lore_Nede.md) and [Bretons](Lore_Breton.md) fell to them quickly, as did the various creatures and beasts farther inland. Eventually, they claimed the entire province after only a few major battles and established a new home for the Yokudan people called [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md).

The term Ra Gada became corrupted to [Redguard](Lore_Redguard.md), and although it originally referred only to the warriors of the refugees, it gradually came to be used to refer to the whole race.

## Ra'athim
[Clan R'Aathim](Lore_R%27Aathim.md)<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_nb1)</sup> (*RAH- **ah** -tim*) is an ancient royal family of the [Chimer](Lore_Chimer.md) (later [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md))<sup>[[nb 2]](#intnote_nb2)</sup> that hail from [Ebonheart](Lore_Ebonheart.md), the eldest city-state of [Morrowind Province](Lore_Morrowind.md). The clan name has also been spelled out as **Ra'athim**<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_nb1)</sup> or **Raathim**. According to the historical fictional *[King Edward](Lore_King_Edward.md)* book series, the Clan R'Aathim were originally a group of miners that held territory stretching across the central mainland, but they eventually became the royalty of Ebonheart and Mournhold. The ancestral estate of the clan is **Ald R'Aathim**,<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_nb1)</sup> a coastal port on the Inner Sea just to the east of the Velothi Mountains (southwest of [Silgrad Tower](Lore_Silgrad_Tower.md)). Notable leaders of both Morrowind and [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) have hailed from the Clan R'Aathim, including the Empress-Regent [Katariah R'Aathim](Lore_Katariah.md), one of the most well-known descendants of the line, who was the Duchess of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md) before marrying into the Septim Emperors in [3E 141](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_141). Near the dawn of Morrowind as a country, the Clan R'Aathim are said to have held the [High Kingship of Morrowind](Lore_Hortator.md).

## Ragebound
The [Ragebound](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Ragebound) are a group of riders, and their various steeds, also known as the ragebound breeds. They originated from the [Karth](Lore_Karth_River.md) Valley in [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md), though they were not solely comprised of [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md), as they were also known to accept members of other races, such as [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) and [Nords](Lore_Nord.md), into their ranks. Books like the *Beastmaster's Practical Bestiary* were dedicated to exploring the origins and practices of the Ragebound. Their mounts were known for their barely controlled rage, and their steeds were kept in check only by their riders. The riders were recognized for the controlled fury they carried, which was said to be evident in their eyes.

## Rageclaw Clan
The [Rageclaw Clan](Lore_Rageclaw_Clan.md) was one of the [clans](Lore_Reachman_Clans.md) of [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md) that lived in [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md), a region in western [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) during the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md) in the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). The Reachfolk of the Rageclaw Clan were known to domesticate a breed of stout, battle-ready [bears](Lore_Bear.md). These bears were trained from an early age and bound to a specific clansman or clan family. Clan members were known to imitate their animal companions in many ways.

A matriarchal society in nature, the protection of young clan members was also of the utmost importance. It was not uncommon for entire families within the Rageclaw to go into battle over the slightest threat to their children. They were known for overtaking and absorbing other smaller clans, converting them to the " way of the claw." Women new to the clan enjoyed tremendous control and freedom, and often appreciated the transition to the Rageclaw Clan. Male warriors, on the other hand, were pitted against grown bears in one-on-one combat, needing to earn their place in the clan by forcing an ursine to submit. They were rarely successful, as the trials for those unfamiliar with these massive beasts were often very dangerous.

## Ratcatchers Guild
The [Ratcatchers Guild](Lore_Ratcatchers_Guild.md) is an officially sanctioned guild. As their name implies, they employ ratcatchers from across the [Empire](Lore_Empire.md).

During the [Akaviri Potentate](Lore_Akaviri_Potentate.md) in [2E 321](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_321), [Versidue-Shaie](Lore_Versidue-Shaie.md) gave his approval for the [Guild Act](Lore_Guild_Act.md), which sanctioned businesses such as the Ratcatchers Guild. They were hence protected by the Empire of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), even into the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), but would be required to pay them if they wanted to expand their influence. The Empire had subsequently strengthened since the Guild Act was passed.

## Raze
The [Raze](Lore_Raze.md) dynasty was a clan of royal [Bretons](Lore_Breton.md) active in [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md) during the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md) under the [Septim Empire](Lore_Septim_Empire.md), who ruled the [Kingdom of Camlorn](Lore_Camlorn_(kingdom).md) and the Duchy of Oloine.

## Razorsworn Clan
[Razorsworn Clan](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Razorsworn_Clan) is a [Dremora](Lore_Dremora.md) clan in service to the [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Prince.md) of Destruction, [Mehrunes Dagon](Lore_Mehrunes_Dagon.md). They often serve as marauders and assassins and are frequently dispatched to strike at Dagon's enemies in other realms. They are enemies of the [Firescourge Clan](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Firescourge_Clan), whom they view with contempt. In the Second Era, the Razorsworn Clan begrudgingly followed the authority of the Ruinblood Clan. Despite being a Dremora clan, they also had [Ruinachs](Lore_Ruinach.md) and [Havocrels](Lore_Havocrel.md) among their ranks.

In [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), one of the Razorsworn-aligned Ruinach, Karzikon was sent to Doomvault Porcixid in [Blackwood](Lore_Blackwood.md). Another member, the Havocrel Kothan, was roaming Mehrunes Dagon's realm, the [Deadlands](Lore_Deadlands.md).

## Reachman Shamans
[Reachman Shamans](Lore_Reachman_Shamans.md), also known as **Witchmen**,<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_WM)</sup> are [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachmen.md) responsible for the spiritual guidance of their clans. Reachfolk approach to religion varies from clan to clan. They worship many spirits, both great and minor. There are many different, yet similar faiths in the Reach. Shamans of different clans follow different traditions, have different beliefs, and are responsible for appeasing and veneration of the different spirits. They often act as religious leaders of their clans.

## Reavers
[Reaver](Lore_Reaver.md) is a term used by the [Nords](Lore_Nord.md) of [Solstheim](Lore_Solstheim.md) to refer to out-islanders, people who inhabit the [Sea of Ghosts](Lore_Sea_of_Ghosts.md) and raid the northern coasts of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). These raiders spend most of their time at sea and generally target one-hut settlements and hunting camps, dropping off small raiding parties rather than beaching their ships for fear that their vessels would be stolen or burned. The strongest warriors in sea reaver groups are considered [barbarians](Lore_Barbarians.md).

## Recollection
The [Recollection](Lore_Recollection.md) was a secret [Bosmeri](Lore_Bosmer.md) cult devoted to the [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Prince.md) of Paths, [Ithelia](Lore_Ithelia.md). They were militant followers of the [Dawnway](Lore_Dawnway.md), having abandoned the [Green Pact](Lore_Green_Pact.md) in favor of this new philosophy.

## Red Exiles
The [Red Exiles](Lore_Red_Exiles.md) were an organization of [Ashlanders](Lore_Ashlanders.md) considered violent and dangerous who were banished by their original tribes, eventually joining together to make their own tribe of outcasts and were counted among the ashlanders that wished for war against the [Tribunal Temple](Lore_Tribunal_Temple.md). Their territory previously included a camp near [Ald'ruhn](Lore_Ald%27ruhn.md) as well as a position around the daedric ruin of [Ashurnabitashpi](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Ashurnabitashpi) in [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md).

## Redoran Guard
The [Redoran Guard](Lore_Redoran_Guard.md) are the warriors and official military of [House Redoran](Lore_House_Redoran.md). Though House Redoran has served as the military powerhouse of [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) society since before the [War of the First Council](Lore_War_of_the_First_Council.md), the modern incarnation of the Redoran Guard was created during the [Oblivion Crisis](Lore_Oblivion_Crisis.md), to combat [Mehrunes Dagon](Lore_Mehrunes_Dagon.md)'s invasion after the withdrawal of the [Imperial Legions](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md) from [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). Afterward, the Redoran Guard were chiefly, if not solely responsible for the halting of the [Argonian](Lore_Argonian.md) [Invasion](Lore_Accession_War.md) in [4E 6](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_6) and have served as the protectors of Morrowind and the Dunmer since. The Guard has postings throughout Morrowind, including the settlement of [Raven Rock](Lore_Raven_Rock.md) and the city of [Mournhold](Lore_Mournhold.md). In [4E 95](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_95), the Redoran Guard of Raven Rock under Captain Modyn Veleth successfully prevented an assassination attempt on Councilor [Lleril Morvayn](Lore_Lleril_Morvayn.md) at the hands of Vilur Ulen of the disgraced former Great [House Hlaalu](Lore_House_Hlaalu.md). In [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201) they assisted the [Last Dragonborn](Lore_Last_Dragonborn.md) in thwarting a second plot by Vilur's son Vendil, and most of the Mournhold garrison was reassigned to other less secure regions of Morrowind.

## Red Sabre
The **Red Sabre** was a fleet of pirates formed during the time of the [Camoran Usurper](Lore_Camoran_Usurper.md), under the leadership of [Torradan ap Dugal](Lore_Torradan_ap_Dugal.md). Destroyed by [Commodore Fasil Umbranox](Lore_Fasil_Umbranox.md) of the Imperial Navy around [3E 271](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_271).<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-CDJ-1)</sup>

## Red Templars
The [Red Templars](Lore_Red_Templars.md) (or **Red Dome [Templars](Lore_Templars.md)**) were a branch of crusaders in the [Imperial Legion](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md) active during the [Third Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md). They had some affiliation with the [Cult of Talos](Lore_Talos_Cult.md), but they were considered psychotic, and were believed to drink the [dragonblood](Lore_Dragonborn.md) of [Talos](Lore_Tiber_Septim.md) to gain temporary martial [shouting](Lore_Thu%27um.md) powers. Due to the rest of the Legion hating them and the [Elder Council](Lore_Elder_Council.md)'s desires to see them dispersed, the order was pushed to undesirable and faraway regions, including [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). They were still an active organization in the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), by which time they were notorious for not taking orders, despite theoretically being a part of the Legion's chain of command.

## Remnants
The [Remnants](Lore_Remnants.md), also known as the **Eyes that Watch**, are a [Redguard](Lore_Redguard.md) network of warriors and spies from [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md) that operate in [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) and elsewhere. Their main purpose is to make sure the [Aldmeri Dominion](Lore_Aldmeri_Dominion.md) and the [Thalmor](Lore_Thalmor.md) follow the terms and conditions set forth by the [Second Treaty of Stros M'Kai](Lore_Second_Treaty_of_Stros_M%27Kai.md), after their retreat from Hammerfell. To that end, they have agents stationed in Skyrim to keep an eye on the Thalmor.

## Remnants Clan
The [Remnants Clan](Lore_Remnants_Clan.md) (or **Remnant Clan**, also called the **Remnants of Apocrypha** or simply the **Remnants**) is an organization of [Dremora](Lore_Dremora.md) in service to [Hermaeus Mora](Lore_Hermaeus_Mora.md), once sworn to defend [Apocrypha](Lore_Apocrypha.md). They are based in the Cenotaph, an ancient fortress floating in Oblivion. The order sees themselves as protectors of knowledge, and they often steal artifacts, tomes, and other objects being researched that they deem too powerful for others.

Unlike most Dremora, the Remnants reject the hierarchical structures common to their kind and have a completely synchronized organization with no ranks or leaders. Due to the nature of their servitude, every member of the Clan is part of a mental web that empowers them and connects them to every other member. Being separated from the web is mentally scarring to the individuals.

## Renrijra Krin
The [Renrijra Krin](Lore_Renrijra_Krin.md) (which translates as *The Mercenary's Grin*, *The Laugh of the Landless* or *The Smiling Scum*, and is often shortened to **Renrijra**) are a long-standing [Khajiiti](Lore_Khajiit.md) criminal organization. The **Renrijra Maor** (also called the **Renrijra Pirates**) are a naval subgroup of the organization.

The Renrijra's name reflects the group's philosophy of bravery and enjoyment of life, while also indicating that they owe allegiance to no ruler. It was originally a derogatory term, but was adopted by the amused group. The organization has no fixed rules, preferring to call its tenets "thjizzrini", or "foolish concepts". Their ranks are made up of thieves, thugs, bandits, smugglers, pirates and saboteurs. They are ruthless in pursuing their aims, but depend on guerrilla tactics to operate, giving freely to Khajiit civilians in return for their support.

During the [Three Banners War](Lore_Three_Banners_War.md), the Renrijra Maor were hired by the [Aldmeri Dominion](Lore_Aldmeri_Dominion.md) as privateers. They raided the coast of [Glenumbra](Lore_Glenumbra.md), seeking to conquer the shores, which elicited an attack by the Breton Navy. In [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), they began operating along the western coast of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md) and [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md). They attempted to enslave the [Argonian](Lore_Argonian.md) population of [Silent Mire](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Silent_Mire), a village in [Deshaan](Lore_Deshaan.md), but were driven off by a series of counter strikes. They were also responsible for helping to supply the failed Dominion invasion of [Shadowfen](Lore_Shadowfen.md), but changed allegiance to the local pirate boss Captain One-Eye after their leader was killed.

By the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), the Renrijra had proclaimed dedication to reclaiming areas of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) that they saw as rightfully belonging to [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md). They blamed the [Count](Lore_Marius_Caro.md) of [Leyawiin](Lore_Leyawiin.md) for driving the Khajiit from the fertile land around [Lake Makapi](Lore_Niben_Bay.md) and the [River Malapi](Lore_River_Niben.md). In this they disagree with their ruler, the [Mane](Lore_Mane.md), who was responsible for making the agreement with Cyrodiil. However, it was the belief of the [Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md) that the organization was simply posing as freedom fighters in order to further their criminal agenda and their Cyrodilic [Skooma](Lore_Skooma.md) smuggling. In [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433), Special Inquisitor Drels Theran of [Bravil](Lore_Bravil.md) was in charge of suppressing the Renrijra insurgents.

## Resolutes of Stendarr
The [Resolutes of Stendarr](Lore_Resolutes_of_Stendarr.md) were a group of [Stendarr](Lore_Stendarr.md) devotees who were sworn to help the sick and protect the weak. The Resolutes consisted of holy warriors and individuals who were talented in healing magicks. Their healers were encouraged by their leaders to use those magicks unsparingly. The Resolutes of Stendarr wore silver pins to identify themselves as members of the organization.

The Resolutes sought to hunt what they call the Four Abominations: [Daedra](Lore_Daedra.md), [manbeasts](Lore_Lycanthropy.md), [vampires](Lore_Vampire.md) and [risen corpses](Lore_Necromancy.md). The Resolutes held that these abominations are unnatural, and sought to drive them from [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) in Stendarr's name. The Four Abominations abhor the light; thus the Resolutes believed that Stendarr gifted those who invoke his name with the ability to clothe themselves in an aura of blessed light. The Resolutes held that Stendarr's faithful have adapted the gift of light to smite their enemies, as well as defend and heal their allies.

## Resolution of Z'en
The [Resolution of Z'en](Lore_Resolution_of_Z%27en.md) (also called the **Resolution of Zenithar**) is the temple dedicated to [Zenithar](Lore_Zenithar.md) the Provider, God of Work and Commerce. These are generally the place of worship for Zenithar. The Resolution was designed to be adaptable with the current times, but resilient to its unforgiving nature, hence the name. Instead of charity and indulgence, the Resolution favors skill in speechcraft and the arts of mercantilism. The Knights of Iron are the Resolution's militant arm, but they are enemies of the [Benevolence of Mara](Lore_Benevolence_of_Mara.md). In the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md), the Resolution of Z'en has many chapters, including [Gavaudon](Lore_Gavaudon_(fiefdom).md), [Glenpoint](Lore_Glenpoint.md), [Kairou](Lore_Kairou.md), [Kambria](Lore_Kambria.md), and [Totambu](Lore_Totambu.md).

## Restless League
The [Restless League](Lore_Restless_League.md) was a group of [Redguard](Lore_Redguard.md) pirates based out of a hidden cove near [Stros M'Kai](Lore_Stros_M%27Kai.md). The League played a critical role in the uprising there during [2E 864](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_864). Their leader was a man named Basil; other prominent members included [Iszara](Lore_Iszara.md) and later her brother [Cyrus](Lore_Cyrus.md). The League used the lighthouse in [Saintsport](Lore_Saintsport.md) as a signal for members to receive transport to their hideout.

## Rethandus‎‎
The [Rethandus](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Rethandus) clan is an ancient family of [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) that lives in the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). They are one of the thirty revered families of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md), and were associated with [House Dagoth](Lore_House_Dagoth.md) at some point. The **Rethandus Ancestral Tomb** is located in the [West Gash](Lore_West_Gash.md) region, on a peninsula northeast of [Gnisis](Lore_Gnisis.md), west of [Maelkashishi](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Maelkashishi) and south of [Khuul](Lore_Khuul.md).

## Rim-Men
The [Rim-Men](Lore_Rim-Men.md) (also known as the **Rimmen**) are a group of [Imperials](Lore_Imperial.md) that live across the [Rim Territories](Lore_Rim_Territories.md) in the province of [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md). The Rim-Men descended from Imperial retainers that worked and later intermingled with the [Tsaesci](Lore_Tsaesci_(race).md) that served the [Second Empire](Lore_Second_Empire.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). These refugees fled the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md) following the death of [Savirien-Chorak](Lore_Savirien-Chorak.md) in [2E 431](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_431) and the ascension of the warlord [Attrebus](Lore_Attrebus_(warlord).md) during the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md). They live in isolation from the rest of Elsweyr and practice the culture that comes from their ancestral homeland of [Akavir](Lore_Akavir.md) such as the [Proving Festival](Lore_Proving_Festival.md) or the belief that waterways connect to the realm of the dead.

## Ring of Daggers
The **Ring of Daggers**, sometimes known as **the Daggers**, was the secret intelligence network of the [Daggerfall Covenant](Lore_Daggerfall_Covenant.md). They were created by [High King Emeric](Lore_High_King_Emeric.md) and were thought to have enforced economic and political issues on the behalf of him.<sup>[[2]](#cite_note-TRIV-2)</sup><sup>[[3]](#cite_note-ONValaste-3)</sup> In truth, the Ring of Daggers pledged allegiance to no one, but instead worked on behalf of the Daggerfall Covenant on a contractual basis, often for Emeric himself. They were utilized in a variety of roles such as guards, soldiers, scouts, and couriers for small scale operations, and they maintained their own chain of command. Their leader was [Copper Dariah](Lore_Copper_Dariah.md).<sup>[[4]](#cite_note-Marisette-4)</sup>

## River-Elk Clan
The [River-Elk Clan](Lore_River-Elk_Clan.md) was a prominent [clan](Lore_Reachman_Clans.md) of [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md) that lived in [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md), a region in western [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) during the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md) in [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). The River-Elks were strong in number and inhabited a multitude of semi-permanent camps throughout the [Karth](Lore_Karth_River.md) Valley. Although they were distrustful of the foreign way, they willingly engaged in trade with foreigners, provided they proven themselves to be friends to the clan.

## River Horse Bretons
The [Bjoulsae River Tribes](Lore_Bjoulsae_River_Tribes.md) (also known as the **Horse-People of the Bjoulsae River**, the **River Horse Bretons**, or simply the **horsemen**) are the indigenous groups of tribal [Bretons](Lore_Breton.md) that live in the [Bjoulsae River](Lore_Bjoulsae_River.md) region. While information on them is scarce, the horsemen are a nomadic, primitive folk that wear fur armor, bone necklaces, and turbans. As the name suggests, they are known for their [horses](Lore_Horse.md). Their battle strategies and tactics are described as straightforward, which is the "way of the horse men", in the book *[The Mirror](Lore_The_Mirror.md)*.

## Roister's Club
The **Roister's Club** was an organization responsible for management of all aspects of Tales of Tribute, such as organizing tournaments, producing new rules, sponsoring chapters, and manufacturing cards. In the beginning, the Roister's Club was a small group of only a few dozen people who created the game. Although originally only the game's creators were members of the club, it has grown to the point that almost everyone who played the game identified as a Roister.

As time passed, the game's original creators, who were mostly scholars, artisans, and explorers, began to be referred to as the **Founders**. While they were known for valuing their anonymity, they still played an active role in promoting the game.

## Root-Whisper Tribe
The [Root-Whisper Tribe](Lore_Root-Whisper_Tribe.md) is an Argonian tribe that resided in the [Deepmire](Lore_Deepmire.md) of [Murkmire](Lore_Murkmire.md). Long ago, the tribe's [Hist](Lore_Hist.md) willed them to build the Vakka-Bok Xanmeer to collect sunlight. The tribe's religious leaders opposed [Duskfall](Lore_Duskfall.md). The tribe's known leaders included a raj-kaal and a [sap-speaker](Lore_Sap-Speakers.md).

## Rourken
The [Rourken](Lore_Rourken.md) were a clan and house of [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md) that lived in the wastes of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md). The Rourken are most well known for their exodus from [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md), after the formation of [First Council](Lore_First_Council.md) between the [Chimer](Lore_Chimer.md) and the Dwemer. In legend, the [Rourken Chieftain](Lore_Rourken_(person).md) grasped his mighty warhammer, [Volendrung](Lore_Volendrung.md) and cast it to the far west, where he and his people would rebuild. The hammer is seen as a family symbol for Clan Rourken. Their capital city is known as [Volenfell](Lore_Volenfell.md), which translates to the "City of the Hammer" in [Dwemeris](Lore_Dwemeris.md). It is located in the vast expanse of the [Alik'r Desert](Lore_Alik%27r_Desert.md), however accounts vary on its specific location, either in the [Gilane](Lore_Gilane.md) region, or in the mountains southeast of [Satakalaam](Lore_Satakalaam.md).

## Royal Guard
The [Royal Guard](Lore_Royal_Guard.md) was a private and elite group of guards dedicated to protecting [Hlaalu Helseth](Lore_Hlaalu_Helseth.md), from when he was the Prince of [Wayrest](Lore_Wayrest_(kingdom).md) to when he became the King of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). They are made up of strong and capable warriors picked directly by Helseth for their loyalty and bravery. Their original leader was **Tienius Delitian**, who had known Helseth since he was a child in Emperor [Uriel VII](Lore_Uriel_Septim_VII.md)'s court. Not only was he an accomplished soldier, but he was politically savvy and an excellent judge of character.

## Royal Imperial Mananauts
The **[Royal Imperial Mananauts of the Elder Council](Lore_Royal_Imperial_Mananauts.md)** (or simply Imperial Mananauts) were a scientifically advanced faction that served under the [Imperial Elder Council](Lore_Elder_Council.md), founded in the late [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md) under the [Reman Empire](Lore_Second_Empire.md). Though their original [expeditionary](Lore_Air_Transportation.md#Aetherial_Vessels) purpose to explore [Aetherius](Lore_Aetherius.md) was eventually deprecated, the Mananauts remained active as an [Imperial organization](Lore_Empire_of_Tamriel.md) into the [Second](Lore_Second_Era.md) and [Third Eras](Lore_Third_Era.md).

## Ruddy Fangs
The [Ruddy Fangs](Lore_Ruddy_Fangs.md) are a [Khajiit](Lore_Khajiit.md) bandit pride from [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md). They have the biggest presence near [the Scar](Lore_The_Scar.md) of [Anequina](Lore_Anequina.md), but are a scourge upon all of Elsweyr. Their main source of income is smuggling things to and from Elsweyr, and one of their biggest products is [Skooma](Lore_Skooma.md). Joining the Ruddy Fangs require you to throw out any morals, and the only way to get out of the business is death.

## Rune Knights of the Purgatory Disquisition
The **Rune Knights of the Purgatory Disquisition** (or the **rune knights of old**) were a small and extremely secretive [knightly order](Lore_Knight.md) founded early on during the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). They were established by an obscure patron and traveled from [Apocrypha](Lore_Apocrypha.md) to wage battles across [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md). It was speculated by some that this founder could've been a [Daedra](Lore_Daedra.md) or powerful [arcanist](Lore_Arcanists.md). The order seemingly didn't last long but managed to leave a footprint on arcanist spellcasting, perfecting runic warding techniques which remained unchanged in the modern arcanist's skill-set. [Azandar al-Cybiades](Lore_Azandar_al-Cybiades.md) was known to research the rune knights of old, but he referred to the result of his studies as a "little more than curious, open ended ephemera".

## References
1. [^](#cite_ref-CDJ_1-0) [*Cap'n Dugal's Journal*](Lore_Cap%27n_Dugal%27s_Journal.md) — [Torradan ap Dugal](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Torradan_ap_Dugal)
2. [^](#cite_ref-TRIV_2-0) [*The Real Investigator Vale?*](Lore_The_Real_Investigator_Vale%3F.md) — [Adandora](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Adandora), Chronicler at Large
3. [^](#cite_ref-ONValaste_3-0) [Valaste](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Valaste)'s dialogue in [ESO](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Online)
4. [^](#cite_ref-Marisette_4-0) [Marisette](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Marisette)'s dialogue in [ESO](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Online)

**Note**: The following references are considered to be [unofficial sources](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/General:Unofficial_Lore). They are included to round off this article and may not be authoritative or conclusive.