# Effects of the Elder Scrolls

| --- | --- |
| Writer | [Shane Liesegang](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/General:Shane_Liesegang) |
| Seen In: | - [Skyrim](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Skyrim:Effects_of_the_Elder_Scrolls) <br> - [Elder Scrolls Online](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Effects_of_the_Elder_Scrolls) |

Effects of the Elder Scrolls **by [Justinius Poluhnius](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Justinius_Poluhnius)** *A thesis on the four different types of readers of the Elder Scrolls*
---
It is widely known among scholars that the [Elder Scrolls](Lore_Elder_Scrolls.md) entail a certain hazard in their very reading. The mechanism of the effects has, at present, been largely unknown -- theories of hidden knowledge and divine retribution were the subject of idle speculation with little investigation. I, Justinius Poluhnius, have undertaken to thoroughly document the ailments afflicted by the Elder Scrolls on their readers, though a unified theory of how they manifest continues to elude me and remains a subject for future study. I have grouped the effects into four, finding that the avenue of experience depends largely upon the mind of the reader. If this is unclear, I hope that a proper dichotomy will lay it plain.
### Group the First: The Naifs
For one who has received no training in the history or nature of the Elder Scrolls, the scroll itself is, effectively, inert. No prophecy can be scried nor knowledge obtained. While the scroll will not impart learning to the uninformed, nor will it afflict them in any adverse fashion. Visually, the scroll will appear to be awash in odd lettering and symbols. Those who know their [astronomy](Lore_Astronomy.md) often claim to recognize [constellations](Lore_Astronomy.md#Constellations) in the patterns and connections, but such conjecture is impossible to further investigate since the very nature of this study necessitates unlearned subjects.
### Group the Second: The Unguarded Intellects
It is this second group that realizes the greatest danger from attempting to read the scrolls. These are subjects who have an understanding of the nature of the Elder Scrolls and possess sufficient knowledge to actually read what is inscribed there. They have not, however, developed adequate discipline to stave off the mind-shattering effect of having a glimpse of infinity. These unfortunate souls are struck immediately, irrevocably, and completely blind. Such is the price for overreaching one's faculties. It bears mentioning, though, that with the blindness also comes a fragment of that hidden knowledge -- whether the future, the past, or the deep natures of being is dependent on the individual and their place in the greater spheres. But the knowledge does come.
### Group the Third: Mediated Understanding
Alone in [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md), it would appear that only the [Cult of the Ancestor Moth](Lore_Cult_of_the_Ancestor_Moth.md) has discovered the discipline to properly guard one's mind when reading the scrolls. Their novitiates must undergo the most rigorous mental cultivation, and they often spend a decade or more at the monastery before being allowed to read their first Elder Scroll. The monks say this is for the initiates' own protection, as they must have witnessed many Unguarded Intellects among their more eager ranks. With appropriate fortitude, these readers also receive blindness, though at a far lesser magnitude than the Unguarded. Their vision fogs slightly, but they retain shape, color, and enough acuity to continue to read mundane texts. The knowledge they gain from the scroll is also tempered somewhat -- it requires stages of meditation and reflection to fully appreciate and express what one saw.
### Group the Fourth: Illuminated Understanding