# Factions V

[Overview](Lore_Factions.md) | [A](Lore_Factions_A.md) [B](Lore_Factions_B.md) [C](Lore_Factions_C.md) [D](Lore_Factions_D.md) [E](Lore_Factions_E.md) [F](Lore_Factions_F.md) [G](Lore_Factions_G.md) [H](Lore_Factions_H.md) [I](Lore_Factions_I.md) [J](Lore_Factions_J.md) [K](Lore_Factions_K.md) [L](Lore_Factions_L.md) [M](Lore_Factions_M.md) [N](Lore_Factions_N.md) [O](Lore_Factions_O.md) [P](Lore_Factions_P.md) [Q](Lore_Factions_Q.md) [R](Lore_Factions_R.md) [S](Lore_Factions_S.md) [T](Lore_Factions_T.md) [U](Lore_Factions_U.md) V [W](Lore_Factions_W.md) [X](Lore_Factions_X.md) Y [Z](Lore_Factions_Z.md)
---

## Vanquished Clan
The [Vanquished Clan](Lore_Vanquished_Clan.md), also known as **the Vanquished**, is an unaffiliated clan of [Dremora](Lore_Dremora.md) and one of the gangs of the [Fargrave](Lore_Fargrave.md)'s district of the Shambles. It is unknown where they came from, though the most popular theories postulate that once served a forgotten [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Prince.md).

They are known to roam the realms of [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md) and seek out the most squalid and lawless situations, making a place for themselves there. Some sources claim that they believe they deserve no better. Unlike most Dremora, the Vanquished ignore distinctions of rank or title. It was speculated that this may stem from the fact that all Vanquished are considered varlets or churls by the rest of their kind. In Fargrave, they are known as one of the gangs that control the Shambles. Similarly to the Errants and the Invisible Web, they consider it their hunting grounds. They control the central plazas of the Shambles as one of their territories.

## Vateshrans
[Vateshrans](Lore_Vateshrans.md) are a [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md) class of lorekeepers and storytellers. They keep the history of the [clans of the Reach](Lore_Reachman_Clans.md). Some of the Vateshrans are focused primarily on the history of a singular clan, while others mainly travel across the Reach to share and learn stories of other clans. They are also responsible for the [ritualistic commemoration](Lore_Ancestor_Worship.md#Other_Traditions) of the dead ancestors of their clan through [music](Lore_Music.md) and [song](Lore_Songs.md). Vateshrans are people of great importance and are widely respected by the Reachfolk clans, as they are responsible for passing down the ancient traditions.

## Veiled Heritance‎
The [Veiled Heritance](Lore_Veiled_Heritance.md) was a group of [Altmeri](Lore_Altmer.md) supremacists that formed in response to Queen [Ayrenn](Lore_Ayrenn.md)'s accession and the subsequent formation of the [Aldmeri Dominion](Lore_Aldmeri_Dominion.md) in [2E 580](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_580). Vehemently opposed to Ayrenn and her [Bosmer](Lore_Bosmer.md) and [Khajiit](Lore_Khajiit.md) allies, they sought to depose her, destroy the Aldmeri Dominion, and expel all non-Altmer from the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md). High Kinlady [Estre](Lore_Estre.md), who was Prince [Naemon](Lore_Naemon.md)'s wife and Ayrenn's sister-in-law, was the group's first leader as the Veiled Queen. It was planned that Estre or Naemon would succeed Ayrenn as monarch.

The Veiled Heritance was made up of disgruntled Altmer from throughout the Dominion. The group primarily operated on Estre's home island of [Auridon](Lore_Auridon.md) and later in the region of [Greenshade](Lore_Greenshade.md) in [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md). Their primary base of operations was a ruin on [Errinorne Isle](Lore_Errinorne_Isle.md) known as the Veiled Keep, which housed the group's leadership council, the Veiled Council.

During Ayrenn's sojourn in Auridon in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), the Heritance attempted to assassinate her, but they were ultimately defeated, and Estre was killed. After their defeat in Auridon and the death of Naemon, the prince's advisor and attendant, Vicereeve [Pelidil](Lore_Pelidil.md), absconded with his body and assumed control of the remnants of the Heritance in Greenshade, where they resumed their conflict with the Aldmeri Dominion. Pelidil was eventually killed in a battle in the [Abecean Sea](Lore_Abecean_Sea.md), but before his death, the vicereeve performed a ritual that raised Naemon from the dead as a [lich](Lore_Lich.md), who then assumed control of the final remnants of the Heritance. The Dominion subsequently destroyed Naemon's lich and defeated the Heritance in a battle at [Hectahame](Lore_Hectahame.md). After the repeated defeats, the Heritance appears to have largely collapsed.

## Velas
The [Velas](Lore_Velas.md) clan is an ancient family of [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) that lives in the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). They are one of the thirty revered families of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md) and are a sub-faction of the Great [House Dres](Lore_House_Dres.md). The clan are descendants of accomplished mages such as [Malkur Valos](Lore_Malkur_Valos.md) and Gavis Velas. The **Velas Ancestral Tomb** is located on a beach in [Azura's Coast](Lore_Azura%27s_Coast.md), between the town of [Suran](Lore_Suran.md) and the ancient stronghold Telasero.

## Veloise
The [Veloise](Lore_Veloise.md) family is a minor [Breton](Lore_Breton.md) noble house hailing from the [Systres Archipelago](Lore_Systres.md). It is specifically a merchant family synonymous with the Veloise Mercantile Trading Consortium, their family business. Their goods circulate from the Systres Archipelago to [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md) and back again.

## Veloth
The [Veloth Clan](Lore_Veloth_(family).md) is a family of [Dark Elves](Lore_Dark_Elves.md) that live in the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). The Veloth clan has a long and prominent history on the region of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md), and is said to be the lineage of the prophet, [Veloth](Lore_Veloth.md) the Pilgrim. The **Veloth Ancestral Tomb** is found in the [West Gash](Lore_West_Gash.md) of Vvardenfell. Their house affiliation is unknown.

## Vereansu Tribe
The [Vereansu Tribe](Lore_Vereansu_Tribe.md) is an [Ashlander](Lore_Ashlanders.md) tribe that lives in the [Deshaan](Lore_Deshaan.md) region of mainland [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md).

In the years leading up to [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582) they were led by Ashkhan Ginasa and Wise Woman Malinu Laetha.

In [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), the Vereansu led an attack on the [Temple](Lore_Tribunal_Temple.md) monastery at [Muth Gnaar](Lore_Muth_Gnaar.md). The monastery held the Tear of Saint Veloth, an [artifact](Lore_Artifacts.md) sacred to [House](Lore_Great_Houses.md) [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) and Ashlanders alike. The healers at the monastery were using the Tear to suppress the effects of the [Llodos Plague](Lore_Llodos_Plague.md), which was spreading across Deshaan. The Vereansu, in their fear of the plague, viewed the Tear's use as defilement and sought to cleanse the monastery with flame. They captured the afflicted and many of the priests who tended them, and locked them within burning buildings to perish. Without the Tear's protection however, many of the afflicted transformed into [Plague Husks](Lore_Plague_Husk.md) and attacked the tribe. Amid the chaos, fleeing priests called for aid from the roadside, and were successfully able to rescue several people from the monastery. The Vereansu wise woman was killed while attempting to destroy the Tear, and the tribe was eventually driven off with the death of its ashkhan.

## Vigil of Stendarr
The **[Vigil of Stendarr](Lore_Vigil_of_Stendarr.md)** is a religious order of priests and warriors who fight in the name of the [Divine](Lore_Divines.md) [Stendarr](Lore_Stendarr.md). Those in their ranks are known as **Vigilants of Stendarr** and form part of the [Priesthood of Stendarr](Lore_Temple_of_Stendarr.md). Their main goal and purpose is to purge the land of [Daedra](Lore_Daedra.md) worship, and to wipe out "abominations" (such as Daedra, [vampires](Lore_Vampire.md), [werewolves](Lore_Werewolf.md), and [witches](Lore_Witch.md)) wherever they are found. Vigilants regularly patrol the wilds of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) in their dedication to wiping out Daedra. They gladly lend their aid to heroes who fit their ideals of virtue, offering a service of curing [diseases](Lore_Disease.md) for free. The order was created shortly after the [Oblivion Crisis](Lore_Oblivion_Crisis.md).

## Vinedusk Rangers
The [Vinedusk Rangers](Lore_Vinedusk_Rangers.md) (formerly known as the **Vinedusk Tribe**) is an elite group of [Bosmeri](Lore_Bosmer.md) rangers, assassins, and spies that historically live in [Reaper's March](Lore_Reaper%27s_March.md), in northeast [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md). They are considered some of the most proficient and lethal assassins in [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md), and their main goal is to keep diplomacy and peace, while serving the High King of Valenwood. Unlike most of the Bosmer that adhere to the [Green Pact](Lore_Green_Pact.md), the Vinedusk are more indifferent to the preservation of the Green, and will destroy it if it benefits them in battle. Within the Vinedusk Rangers there is an elite, dangerous force known as the **Vinedusk Vigilants**, assassin-scouts who move quietly through forests, dealing with any who pose a threat. They are sometimes called **tree ghosts**, and wear custom-made gear that complements their preferred fighting styles. They live in the aptly named Vinedusk Village, which moves regularly throughout the region. Not far from their township, the tomb of their leader, [Nendaer the Ironbark](Lore_Nendaer_the_Ironbark.md) is always nearby.

## Vintners Guild
The [Vintners Guild](Lore_Vintners_Guild.md) is an officially sanctioned guild. As their name implies, they employ vintners from across the [Empire](Lore_Empire.md).

During the [Akaviri Potentate](Lore_Akaviri_Potentate.md) in [2E 321](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_321), [Versidue-Shaie](Lore_Versidue-Shaie.md) gave his approval for the [Guild Act](Lore_Guild_Act.md), which sanctioned businesses such as the Vintners Guild. They were hence protected by the Empire of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), even into the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), but would be required to pay them if they wanted to expand their influence. The Empire had subsequently strengthened since the Guild Act was passed.

## Vlindrel
The [Vlindrels](Lore_Vlindrel.md) are a great and ancient noble merchant family of [Colovian](Lore_Colovian.md) origin, active in [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), and [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md).

## Volkihar
The [Volkihar](Lore_Volkihar.md) are the most powerful tribe of [vampires](Lore_Vampirism.md) in [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). The Volkihar are paranoid and cruel, and their breath is said to freeze their victims' blood in the veins. They are said to usually live in eastern Skyrim, beneath the ice of remote and haunted lakes, never venturing into the world of men except to feed. Despite these claims, they are sometimes known to dwell within vampire lairs with others of their kind, and can be found all over Skyrim. They can reach through the ice of their lakes without breaking it to grab unsuspecting victims from the surface. Members of the Volkihar bloodline are infected with the vampire's disease called [Sanguinare Vampiris](Lore_Sanguinare_Vampiris.md), instead of the more common [Porphyric Hemophilia](Lore_Porphyric_Hemophilia.md).

[Lord Harkon](Lore_Harkon.md) and his family are the progenitors of the Volkihar clan. They are pure-blooded [Vampire Lords](Lore_Vampire_Lord.md), having been given the gift of vampirism directly by [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md). Harkon and his court dwell within the ancient [Castle Volkihar](Lore_Castle_Volkihar.md), on a remote island off the coast of [Haafingar](Lore_Haafingar.md), near the border of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md). The Volkihar bloodline thins with each new generation, becoming weaker and eventually losing the ability to transform, though the progeny and "grandchild" of a pure-blood are still pure enough to transform into a Vampire Lord but are still considered to be half-breeds, at least compared to the Daughters of Coldharbour and Harkon. According to the ancient vampire Vingalmo, certain star signs as well as a mortal descendant of Harkon will allow vampirism to be "faithfully" accepted by the descendant, thus creating a vampire lord seemingly regardless of generation.

## Vosh Rakh
The [Vosh Rakh](Lore_Vosh_Rakh.md) (**Blade of Courage** in [Orcish](Lore_Orcish.md)) was a religious movement that promised to return the [Orcs](Lore_Orcs.md) back to what and who they are as people by reclaiming the glory of the warrior god [Trinimac](Lore_Trinimac.md) and restoring the Orcs to what the Vosh Rakh saw as the rightful place of the race in the world. During the time of their activities in the year [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582) they were led by Forge-Mother Alga, mother of the then King [Kurog](Lore_Kurog_gro-Orsinium.md) of [Orsinium](Lore_Orsinium.md), with the group meant to be temporary as they would soon disband after causing trouble to followers of Malacath as they sought Orc unification under their own terms.

## Vraseth
[Vraseth](Lore_Vraseth.md) (or **House Vraseth**) is one of the [vampire](Lore_Vampire.md) bloodlines of the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md) area.