# Places C

[Overview](Lore_Places.md) | [A](Lore_Places_A.md) [B](Lore_Places_B.md) C [D](Lore_Places_D.md) [E](Lore_Places_E.md) [F](Lore_Places_F.md) [G](Lore_Places_G.md) [H](Lore_Places_H.md) [I](Lore_Places_I.md) [J](Lore_Places_J.md) [K](Lore_Places_K.md) [L](Lore_Places_L.md) [M](Lore_Places_M.md) [N](Lore_Places_N.md) [O](Lore_Places_O.md) [P](Lore_Places_P.md) [Q](Lore_Places_Q.md) [R](Lore_Places_R.md) [S](Lore_Places_S.md) [T](Lore_Places_T.md) [U](Lore_Places_U.md) [V](Lore_Places_V.md) [W](Lore_Places_W.md) [X](Lore_Places_X.md) [Y](Lore_Places_Y.md) [Z](Lore_Places_Z.md) | [Maps](Lore_Maps.md)
---

## Cael
[Cael](Lore_Cael.md) is a potentially fictional location mentioned in *[The Ransom of Zarek](Lore_The_Ransom_of_Zarek.md)*.<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-ATOTD-1)</sup>

## Caldera
[Caldera](Lore_Caldera.md) was an [Imperial](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md) charter town just north of [Balmora](Lore_Balmora.md). It was built to service the nearby [Ebony](Lore_Ebony.md) mine, providing the miners with homes, entertainment, and other services. The town was ruled largely from the Caldera Mining Company's fortress to the northeast.

The buildings, which had [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) and [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) architectural influences, formed an inverse "L" shape between two large guard towers. While [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) presence in Caldera was almost nonexistent, a large contingent of [Orcs](Lore_Orc.md) lived in the dilapidated Ghorak Manor (along with an unusual [Scamp](Lore_Creeper.md) who was a merchant and claimed the house was his). Notable institutions in Caldera included an [Imperial Cult](Lore_Imperial_Cult.md) altar, a [Mages Guild branch](Lore_Mages_Guild.md), two general merchants, a blacksmith, a tavern, and one of the few Imperial-style clothiers in [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md).

## Caldera Crater
[Caldera Crater](Lore_Caldera_Crater.md) is a large crater surrounded by steep hills near the tail-end of the [West Gash](Lore_West_Gash.md), in the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). For some time, it was a location of little note that grew the unique Caldera Mushroom and contained the ancestral tomb of the Uveran clan, one of Vvardenfell's thirty revered families. In the mid- [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), it was the den of a dangerous [nix-ox](Lore_Nix-Ox.md), and the site was known by locals as **Nilthog's Hollow**. In the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), a rich deposit of [ebony](Lore_Ebony.md) was discovered here and the **Caldera Mine** was built by the [Third Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md) to extract it. It is the namesake of the mine's charter town, [Caldera](Lore_Caldera.md).

## Caledon River
The [Caledon River](Lore_Caledon_River.md) is a waterway located somewhere about the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md), and its waters are described as "murky black."

## Calluis Lar
[Calluis Lar](Lore_Calluis_Lar.md) is one of the minor islands of the [Summerset](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md) archipelago. It is located in the [Abecean Sea](Lore_Abecean_Sea.md), off the coast of the northern [Auridon](Lore_Auridon.md), near the city of [Firsthold](Lore_Firsthold.md).

During the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), it was a popular hideout of the pirates. A few days before the revolt of the [Trebbite Monks](Lore_Trebbite_Monks.md) against Queen [Morgiah](Lore_Morgiah.md) the activity of the pirates in the area increased. They had been more brazen and began to attack royal barges in organized raids. [Reman Karoodil](Lore_Reman_Karoodil.md) decided to deliver a crushing blow to the criminals who were using the islet as a base and ordered the greatest part of his militia to invade the island. He led the incursion himself. Although the outcome of the intervention is unclear, he returned to his castle after a few days.

## Camlorn
[Camlorn](Lore_Camlorn.md) (historically called **Camlarn**) is one of the nine historical [Breton kingdoms](Lore_Kingdoms_of_High_Rock.md) in the province of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md), situated on the coastal highlands of [Glenumbra](Lore_Glenumbra.md). Camlorn and the surrounding region is a melting pot of several different [Breton](Lore_Breton.md) cultures and its people fancy themselves as more refined and metropolitan compared to their neighbors in [Daggerfall](Lore_Daggerfall.md). The kingdom's nobility consider themselves an aristocracy of poets and artisans. It has also greatly benefitted from trade coming from either the [Eltheric Ocean](Lore_Eltheric_Ocean.md) or the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md). As of [3E 432](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_432), Camlorn was one of five major kingdoms in High Rock.

## Cann
[Cann](Lore_Cann.md) was a ruin in the [Shivering Isles](Lore_Shivering_Isles.md). Though the initial origin of Cann is all but unknown, the last notable inhabitants were a group of [Manic](Lore_Mania.md) idealists who brought residents of the Isles (and sometimes beyond, in the case of Beldring of Palgania) to the ruins to be housed and pampered for days on end. Ultimately, the group who oversaw this project fled the ruin, and the bloodbath that they caused.

## Lake Canulus
[Lake Canulus](Lore_Lake_Canulus.md) is a lake in the far east of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), between the [Silverfish](Lore_Silverfish_River.md) and [Panther Rivers](Lore_Panther_River.md). It is surrounded by old forts, mines, camps, and caverns. A great monastic complex of the [Alessian Order](Lore_Alessian_Order.md) that contained documents dating back to at least the mid-sixth century was once built along its shores, but it was razed during the [War of Righteousness](Lore_War_of_Righteousness.md), and much of its archives were destroyed. The [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleids.md) city of [Varsa Baalim](Lore_Varsa_Baalim.md) was located near the lake before it plunged into the ground in the early [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md).

## Caomus River
The [Caomus River](Lore_Caomus_River.md) (formerly known as **Diren River**) is a waterway flowing from the mountains near to the [Tor-Hame-Khard](Lore_Tor-Hame-Khard.md) to the waters of the [Auridon Strait](Lore_Auridon_Strait.md). The city of [Shimmerene](Lore_Shimmerene.md) is built on its southern bank, with its docks located on the northern bank. The mouth of the river starts at the [Direnni Acropolis](Lore_Direnni_Acropolis.md), formerly the farming village of Tyrigel, which was once located on the banks of the river Caomus.

In the [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md), the [Locvar Tribe](Lore_Locvar.md) sailed down the Caomus River and stumbled onto Tyrigel, seeing it as a good target for food and other bounties. Their attacks continued until they were defeated by [Asliel Direnni](Lore_Asliel_Direnni.md).

The river's original name was adopted by the inhabitants of the Tyrigel as their name. In the future, they rose into prominence as an influential faction known as Clan [Direnni](Lore_Direnni.md).

## Cape of the Blue Divide
The [Cape of the Blue Divide](Lore_Cape_of_the_Blue_Divide.md), or simply the **Blue Divide** is the body of water found between the provinces of the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md) and [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md), and the general area of the [Second Aldmeri Dominion](Lore_Aldmeri_Dominion.md#Second_Dominion). It is bordered by the [Abecean Sea](Lore_Abecean_Sea.md) to the north and the [Southern Sea](Lore_Southern_Sea.md) to the southeast; and, like the Abecean Sea, the Blue Divide most likely belongs to the [Eltheric Ocean](Lore_Eltheric_Ocean.md).

The Blue Divide's general scope is largely unknown, though the town of [Southpoint](Lore_Southpoint.md) is reportedly north of the body of water. The island of [Stros M'Kai](Lore_Stros_M%27Kai.md) is a strategic location, found north of the Cape of the Blue Divide. It was because of this the island was targeted by the [Third Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md) during their conquest of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md) in the [Tiber War](Lore_Tiber_War.md). It was their closest foothold to the Cape, described as the waters of the Aldmeri Dominion. The [Colovians](Lore_Colovia.md) made their earliest voyages around these waters, and the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md), sacking various [Nedic](Lore_Nedic.md) settlements. The Cape of the Blue Divide was also the general location of the [War of the Blue Divide](Lore_War_of_the_Blue_Divide.md), occurring in the [Imperial Simulacrum](Lore_Imperial_Simulacrum.md) between the provinces of Valenwood and the Summerset Isles.

## Cape Shira
[Cape Shira](Lore_Cape_Shira.md) is an area comprising the western end of mainland [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md). It has a lush tropical climate, though the northern coast is rocky. [Salas En](Lore_Salas_En.md) is found here. [Yaghoub](Lore_Yaghoub.md) sailed northwest to round the Cape, becoming the first of the Ra Gada to discover the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md).

Cape Shira roughly corresponds to the location of the regions of [Abibon-Gora](Lore_Abibon-Gora.md), [Kairou](Lore_Kairou.md), and [Pothago](Lore_Pothago.md) in the Iliac Bay.

## Carn Prae
**[Carn Prae](Lore_Carn_Prae.md)** is a location found in northwestern [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md),<sup>[[2]](#cite_note-RGMap-2)</sup> presumably near the [Rivenspire](Lore_Rivenspire.md) side of the [King's Guard Mountains](Lore_King%27s_Guard.md). It is unknown if it is equated with another location in that area such as Camp Tamrith.<sup>[[3]](#cite_note-ESO-3)</sup>

## Cartmont
[Cartmont](Lore_Cartmont.md) (also called **Corten Mont**) is a location found in south-central [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), found in between the city-states of [Taneth](Lore_Taneth.md) and [Elinhir](Lore_Elinhir.md).

## Cascabel Hall
[Cascabel Hall](Lore_Cascabel_Hall.md) was a castle located near the city of [Solitude](Lore_Solitude.md) in [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). It was noted for its impenetrable walls and the vast arbor of golden apples that stretched for many acres near the castle, said to be the finest, most delectable apples in the [Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md). Its well was connected to an underground basin rich with vast reserves of water.

At some point between [3E 246](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_246) and [3E 427](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_427), the Kings of Solitude and [Farrun](Lore_Farrun.md) fought a war against one another, and the Count of Cascabel allied himself with Solitude. When the forces of the King of Solitude had left Cascabel Hall, the Bosmer mercenary [Menegur](Lore_Menegur.md) was left behind to man the battlements as the rear-guard to protect their retreat. The army had left a wagon behind to supply him with what they assumed would be enough food for months, but the trunks turned out to be filled with inedible [netch](Lore_Netch.md) [leather](Lore_Netch_Leather.md) armor from the army's incursion into [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). The enemy army soon surrounded the castle, leaving Menegur to defend it alone and nearly starving after living off of rats, insects, and even moss. He soon went on irregular treks to enemy encampment outside the walls to retrieve apples from the arbor, using the netch armor training he received from his kinswoman [Aerin](Lore_Aerin.md) to avoid being killed by the enemy troops.

The King of Solitude eventually returned with his army after months of working out a truce with the King of Farrun, and thanked Menegur for his service. The knights of Farrun, now no longer hostile to Menegur, apologized for their attempts to kill him and admired his skills. The King said Menegur owed thirty-seven Imperial gold to the Count for the crops he'd eaten while they were away, as they'd exceeded his mercenary wages. Menegur responded by saying he'd pay the fee to himself, as after reading through law books he viewed an [Elder Council](Lore_Elder_Council.md) decree made as an attempt to clear up some questions of property rights in Skyrim during [Uriel IV](Lore_Uriel_Septim_IV.md)'s reign, which stated that any man without a liege who occupied a castle for more than three months would be granted the rights and titles of that estate. Menegur proclaimed that by rule of law, he was now the Count of Cascabel.

By [3E 427](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_427), Menegur's son still held the title of Count of Cascabel. The castle no longer stood by the [Fourth Era](Lore_Fourth_Era.md), although some of the shipments of [netch](Lore_Netch.md) leather armor survived, having been sent to the nearby Fort Hraggstad after the battle. These armor pieces were looted from the ruins of the fort by the [Last Dragonborn](Lore_Last_Dragonborn.md) circa [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201).

## Castle Daggerfall
[Castle Daggerfall](Lore_Castle_Daggerfall.md) (also called **Daggerfall Castle**) is the seat of power for the [Kingdom of Daggerfall](Lore_Daggerfall_(kingdom).md) and is located in the [capital city](Lore_Daggerfall.md). The castle sits at the city's highest point and overlooks the settlement and the [Eltheric Ocean](Lore_Eltheric_Ocean.md) from its unassailable position.

## Castle Ebonheart
[Castle Ebonheart](Lore_Castle_Ebonheart.md) (or **Ebonheart**, after the mainland city of [the same name](Lore_Ebonheart.md)) was the seat of [Imperial](Lore_Third_Empire.md) authority in [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md). From this city, the Duke of Ebonheart, [Vedam Dren](Lore_Vedam_Dren.md), and his Grand Council determined law and policy for the Vvardenfell administrative district. The Imperial Chapels served the Duke, his retainers and the castle's garrisons, and were also an administrative center for [Imperial Cult](Lore_Imperial_Cult.md) presence.

## Castle Leyawiin
[Castle Leyawiin](Lore_Castle_Leyawiin.md) (also called **Leyawiin Castle**) is a large [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) stone castle built on an island in the [Lower Niben](Lore_Lower_Niben.md), straddling the deep channels of the river and guarding the entrance to [Topal Bay](Lore_Topal_Bay.md). It is named for the surrounding walled city of [Leyawiin](Lore_Leyawiin.md) and is considered to be one of the most notable castles in [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md).

The castle structure is located within the inner keep on the eastern side of the city and possesses staunch circular towers, a soaring main hall, an enclosed courtyard, side corridors, dungeons, guard barracks, private quarters, and secret passages. The castle also contains poorly organized collections of books and written documents dating back to the early years of the [Alessian Empire](Lore_Alessian_Empire.md).}

## Castle of the Worm
The [Castle of the Worm](Lore_Castle_of_the_Worm.md) was an enormous complex built in [Coldharbour](Lore_Coldharbour.md). It served as the [Order of the Black Worm](Lore_Order_of_the_Black_Worm.md)'s stronghold during the time of the [Planemeld](Lore_Planemeld.md).

Following the [Soulburst](Lore_Soulburst.md) caused by [Mannimarco](Lore_Mannimarco.md) in [2E 578](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_578), [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md) was cast adrift so that [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md) could merge it with his realm of Coldharbour. Although acting as his loyal servant, Mannimarco planned to usurp Bal's place as the God of Schemes and rule over both Nirn and Coldharbour. The Castle of the Worm was built using dark magics and the slave labor of [Soul Shriven](Lore_Soul_Shriven.md) as a monument to the necromancer's hubris. Although Mannimarco himself continued to rule from the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md), the Castle was used as a prison and cattle pen. Overseen by Worm Cultists, countless mortals were sacrificed to Molag Bal at the Castle, losing their [souls](Lore_Souls.md) to become Soul Shriven. Their corpses were then used as material for the creation of undead servants to guard the fortress. A small Soul Shriven village called the Wretched Squalor sprung up outside the walls of the Castle.

One of the Castle's many prisoners was Chancellor [Abnur Tharn](Lore_Abnur_Tharn.md) of the [Elder Council](Lore_Elder_Council.md). Despite submitting to Mannimarco following the necromancer's betrayal of Emperor [Varen Aquilarios](Lore_Varen_Aquilarios.md), Tharn was eventually removed from his position of power in the Imperial City and confined to the Castle. He was given meaningless tasks, overseeing minor Worm Cult cells on [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) and sorting [soul gems](Lore_Soul_Gems.md), and was kept alive for political reasons only until such time as he could be disposed of. By chance, in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582) following his escape from Coldharbour, Varen Aquilarios came into possession of a magical orb that Tharn used to communicate with a subordinate. Seeing it as a chance to escape, Tharn promised to reveal the location of [Sai Sahan](Lore_Sai_Sahan.md) if he could be extracted from the Castle. Aquilarios created a portal to Coldharbour for [Lyris Titanborn](Lore_Lyris_Titanborn.md) and the [Vestige](Lore_The_Vestige.md), who were then able to enter the Castle through its cistern with the help of Sir [Cadwell](Lore_Cadwell.md). Fighting through the Daedric, mortal and undead guardians, the intruders succeeded in freeing Tharn from captivity and were teleported out by Aquilarios after a brief confrontation with Mannimarco's projection.

After his failure to secure the [Amulet of Kings](Lore_Amulet_of_Kings.md) from the [Five Companions](Lore_Five_Companions.md) later that year, Molag Bal learned of Mannimarco's plans to replace him. The King of Worms was pulled into Coldharbour to be tortured for all eternity, and although he later escaped from the Prince's clutches, it can be assumed that the Worm Cult fell out of favor within Coldharbour. The fate of the Castle of the Worm is unknown following the failure of the Planemeld.

## Castle Rilis
[Castle Rilis](Lore_Castle_Rilis.md) was a ruin built by the [Ancients](Lore_Ancients.md), found on the northern tip of the island of [Auridon](Lore_Auridon.md) within the province of the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md).

Castle Rilis was one of the oldest Altmer ruins found in the province, named after the royal family of [Firsthold](Lore_Firsthold.md), the Rilis clan. The vaults and catacombs underneath Castle Rilis were even older, and contained secrets that were long forgotten. One of these vaults was **the Banished Cells**, a prison said to contain various [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md) that delved into the forbidden knowledge and dealings of the [Daedra](Lore_Daedra.md).

## Castle Volkihar
[Castle Volkihar](Lore_Castle_Volkihar.md) is an ancient castle perhaps dating back to the [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md) or the early [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md). It is located on an isolated island off the [Giant's Coast](Lore_Giant%27s_Coast.md) of [Haafingar Hold](Lore_Haafingar.md) in [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), near the border with [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md). Long thought lost to the eternal mists of the [Sea of Ghosts](Lore_Sea_of_Ghosts.md), the sprawling castle manifesting on the rocky islands north of Icewater Jetty has been seen by fishermen on Skyrim's [northwest coast](Lore_Giant%27s_Coast.md).

Initially the home of an [Aedric](Lore_Aedra.md) cult, the castle has since been occupied by the [Volkihar](Lore_Volkihar.md) for millennia, hence its current name.

## Castle Wayrest
[Castle Wayrest](Lore_Castle_Wayrest.md) (also called **Wayrest Castle** or **Wayrest Palace**) is the seat of power for the [Kingdom of Wayrest](Lore_Wayrest_(kingdom).md) and is located in the [capital city](Lore_Wayrest.md). The castle is arguably the most famous castle in all of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) and is noted for its sweeping spires that provide a grand view of the entire countryside. Its classical stone-keep architecture had set the standard for noble housing for centuries. The castle lies in the eponymous **Palace District** of Wayrest city, and is found on the north end of Wayrest Boulevard.

## Cath Bedraud
[Cath Bedraud](Lore_Cath_Bedraud.md) is an ancient cemetery, a series of concentric circular bands found in the highlands of [Glenumbra](Lore_Glenumbra.md), in the province of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md). Cath Bedraud is the burial ground for the province's greatest heroes and monarchs, who fought to the death to protect High Rock for millennia. The surface level of the cemetery is reserved for warriors that were deemed heroes, while below the earth are catacombs and ornate mausoleums for the many kings and queens of the past. The center of the cemetery contains the oldest and most prestigious graves. It is heavily advised to avoid Cath Bedraud in the heavy fog, ghostly lights and hollowed moans occur across the area.

## Cathnoquey
[Cathnoquey](Lore_Cathnoquey.md) is an archipelago that lies somewhere between [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) and [Akavir](Lore_Akavir.md). It was conquered by [Uriel Septim V](Lore_Uriel_Septim_V.md) in [3E 276](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_276), and was still an inhabited [Imperial](Lore_Empire.md) territory and trade hub circa [3E 331](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_331). According to dubious Imperial records, its main inhabitants are the [Chimeri-quey](Lore_Chimeri-quey.md), a tribal remnant of [Chimer](Lore_Chimer.md) composed of fisherfolk who live on the coastlines in grand flotilla-townships of advanced design, and the [Keptu-quey](Lore_Keptu-quey.md), [men](Lore_Men.md) with tan brown skin said to have a strange obsession with drawing [bulls](Lore_Bull.md) and living in leaderless societies in military fortresses. One of its major exports is wasabi, a substance that has been popular in [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) since ancient times.

## Cave of Hidden Music
[Cave of Hidden Music](Lore_Cave_of_Hidden_Music.md) (or the **Cave of the Hidden Music**) is a cavern located in the snow laden woodland of the [Solstheim](Lore_Solstheim.md), currently in the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). It is a large cavern located in the [Isinfier Plains](Lore_Isinfier_Plains.md), where the *"rocks hung from the ceiling and grew from the ground itself,"* and the "Song of the Earth," a faint [melody](Lore_Music.md) found deep in the cave, in the Chamber of Song. It partially serves as an ancient [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) barrow, so it is swarmed by the [draugr](Lore_Draugr.md), the undead Nordic warriors of yore.

## Ceporah Tower
The [Ceporah Tower](Lore_Ceporah_Tower.md) is an ancient structure on the Isle of [Artaeum](Lore_Artaeum.md), an island originally in the [Summerset Archipelago](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md). The Tower serves as the headquarters of the monastic [Psijic Order](Lore_Psijic_Order.md), who call Artaeum home. While parts of the Tower were constructed by the Psijics, its foundations are far older, having an entirely unique architecture, and was built by unknown ancient beings. Directly beneath Ceporah Tower lies the **Dreaming Cave**, which houses a portal that can be used to travel to any realm of [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md) and beyond, and is described as the place where all the [magicka](Lore_Magicka.md) and other energies in Artaeum pool, like water dripping from a chain, it has been used for this purpose by many, including [Sotha Sil](Lore_Sotha_Sil.md) —a member of the [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) [Tribunal](Lore_Tribunal.md) —who made a compact with many of the [Daedric Princes](Lore_Daedric_Princes.md) in the late [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md).

Ceporah Tower, like Artaeum itself, normally resides in a [plane](Lore_Planes_of_Existence.md) outside [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md) where it was transported by the Psijics, it is said that this plane exists in a place harder to reach than even [Aetherius](Lore_Aetherius.md) or even realms "beyond" it, where even the magic of the [Sea Sload](Lore_Sea_Sload.md) can't reach, thus allowing for the Order to research the truths of [Aurbis](Lore_Aurbis.md) without interruption. It is said that even the [Daedric Princes](Lore_Daedric_Princes.md) do not know where the plane where Ceporah Tower resides is located, though the Psijics maintain telepathic contact with certain oracles of the [Wyrd](Lore_Wyrd.md) to gain information on Tamriel's affairs, and the location can be discerned if one finds such an oracle and traces the connection back to the island itself, even allowing for a portal to it to be opened. It is used by the Psijics in many of their rituals, and is known as the location beneath which [Vanus Galerion](Lore_Vanus_Galerion.md) confronted [Mannimarco](Lore_Mannimarco.md) about the latter's increasing fascination with [necromancy](Lore_Necromancy.md) and soul-trapping. It was this confrontation that led directly to the founding of the [Mages Guild](Lore_Mages_Guild.md).

## Cespar
[Cespar](Lore_Cespar.md) (also spelled **Caspar**) is a large island off the western coast of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), south of [Herne](Lore_Herne_(island).md). Sometime in the mid- [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), the former noblewoman, Lady Benwyne Thronebane was exiled to the island of Cespar and lived there since at least [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582). When the Painted Eye took over the citadel [Borderwatch](Lore_Borderwatch.md) in southern [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), they made a demand to free Lady Thronebane but it was later revealed that all of their demands were a ruse. The island was considered by the [Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md) to be part of Hammerfell's territory in [3E 427](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_427). By [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433), the island appeared to be unaffiliated with any province on certain maps.

Tralan the Two-Blade, a [Redguard](Lore_Redguard.md) swordsman who became one of Emperor [Titus Mede I](Lore_Titus_Mede_I.md)'s most valued men, hailed from Cespar.

## Ceyatatar
[Ceyatatar](Lore_Ceyatatar.md) (meaning "Shadow of the Fatherwoods" in [Ayleidoon](Lore_Ayleidoon.md), originally named **Ceya-Tar**) is a crumbling [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) ruin in the wilderness between the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md) and [Skingrad](Lore_Skingrad.md). The ruins contain the central dome of a great underground edifice once dedicated to [Magnus](Lore_Magnus_(god).md), where ancient [magic](Lore_Magic.md) still casts a blue shimmer onto the faded white walls and pools of water within. The underground complex extends deep into the [Great Forest](Lore_Great_Forest.md) to the southwest, having been built into the natural caverns below.

## Ceyond
[Ceyond](Lore_Ceyond.md) (possibly *Shadow Gray* in [Ayleidoon](Lore_Ayleidoon.md)) is an underground [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleids.md) [ruin](Lore_Ayleid_Ruins.md) in the [West Weald](Lore_West_Weald.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), located beneath the hills west of [Skingrad](Lore_Skingrad.md). The ruins consist primarily of a subterranean complex, including a large chamber known as Ceyond Grand Hall.

## The Chain
[The Chain](Lore_The_Chain.md) is a group of at least three islands in the [Abecean Sea](Lore_Abecean_Sea.md), south of [Hegathe](Lore_Hegathe.md) in [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md) and west of [Stros M'Kai](Lore_Stros_M%27Kai.md), near the [Eltheric Ocean](Lore_Eltheric_Ocean.md). The two smaller islands trail off to the west. The island was considered by the [Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md) to be Hammerfell's territory in the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md).

The [coral](Lore_Coral.md) kingdoms of [Thras](Lore_Thras.md) are described as a set of islands southwest of the Chain.

## Chaseguard
[Chaseguard](Lore_Chaseguard.md) (also called **Chasegard**) is a town found in southern [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), on the eastern shores of [Hew's Bay](Lore_Hew%27s_Bay.md) between the city-state of [Taneth](Lore_Taneth.md) and [Rihad](Lore_Rihad.md).

## Cheydinhal
[Cheydinhal](Lore_Cheydinhal.md) is one of the nine major cities in the province of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), situated in the forest highlands of the [Nibenay Basin](Lore_Nibenay_Basin.md). Cheydinhal is an idyllic and prosperous [Nibenese](Lore_Nibenese.md) city noted for its heavily [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) inspired architecture and customs, which arose most prominently around the 3E 380s. The city is also known for its broad, green parkland and neatly trimmed cityscape, all of which surround the graceful willows of the [Corbolo River](Lore_Corbolo_River.md).

For most of Cheydinhal's history it was ruled by [House Tharn](Lore_House_Tharn.md), who were also the Overlords of Nibenay. In the waning years of the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), the Indarys family became the Counts of Cheydinhal.

## The Chill
[The Chill](Lore_The_Chill.md) is a small glacial island off the [coast](Lore_Northern_Coast.md) of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). It is located north of [Winterhold](Lore_Winterhold_(city).md) in the [ice fields](Lore_Ice_Fields.md) of the [Sea of Ghosts](Lore_Sea_of_Ghosts.md). The island is home to an ice cave that serves as Winterhold's jail, where prisoners are often left to die. This island prison is guarded only by [Frost Atronachs](Lore_Frost_Atronach.md). The guards in Winterhold will often tell recently captured criminals to "enjoy the Chill", before imprisoning them there.

The island is quite [mineral](Lore_Minerals.md) rich, with ore deposits of [corundum](Lore_Corundum.md), [gold](Lore_Gold.md), [iron](Lore_Iron.md), and [silver](Lore_Silver.md) all being present. The island and surrounding ice floes are home to wildlife such as [horkers](Lore_Horker.md), [ice wolves](Lore_Ice_Wolf.md), [snowy sabre cats](Lore_Snowy_Sabre_Cat.md), and [snow bears](Lore_Snow_Bear.md).

## Chillwind Depths
[Chillwind Depths](Lore_Chillwind_Depths.md) is a sizeable cave system located along a large river, in the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). It is one of the largest frozen caves in northwestern Skyrim, but despite its low ceiling and general inhospitality, it hosts all sorts of wildlife in its winding caves. Many rumors surround the caves, from fantastical tales of [giant insects](Lore_Chaurus.md) and *pale-skinned [humanoids](Lore_Falmer.md) with a hunger for [Nord](Lore_Nord.md) flesh* to enticing rumors of lost [Reach](Lore_Reachmen.md) treasures and dark waters teeming with subterranean [fish](Lore_Fish.md) for brave fisherfolk. Whether these stories have any truth to them is unknown as very few people try to explore them.

## Chorrol
[Chorrol](Lore_Chorrol.md) is a [Colovian](Lore_Colovia.md) town in northwestern [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), between the [Great Forest](Lore_Great_Forest.md) of west Cyrodiil and the [Colovian Highlands](Lore_Colovian_Highlands.md) of the [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md) border. It is a boulder-strewn area where large oak canopies shade its streets. Citizens of Chorrol are known as "Chorrolians".

## Cipher's Midden
[Cipher's Midden](Lore_Cipher%27s_Midden.md) is a [mortal](Lore_Races.md) settlement located in the center of [Apocrypha](Lore_Apocrypha.md). It is primarily inhabited by the Ciphers of the Eye, mortals scholars who were brought to Apocrypha by [Hermaeus Mora](Lore_Hermaeus_Mora.md) and exist there with his blessing. No cipher has authority over another; the only law in Cipher's Midden is that of Hermaeus Mora, and he takes no interest in mortal dealings. Instead, the ciphers choose to cooperate on custom.

## Cliff Keep
[Cliff Keep](Lore_Cliff_Keep.md) is a location found in the [Sunforge](Lore_Sunforge.md) region of north-central [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), along the [Dragontail Mountains](Lore_Dragontail_Mountains.md) and east of [Skaven](Lore_Skaven.md).

## Clockwork City
The eponymous city of [Sotha Sil](Lore_Clockwork_City.md), better known as the **Clockwork City**, and also known as the **Brass-Throat**, and the **Oil-Slick Tower of Seamless Assembly**, is a metaphysical clockwork realm that is the greatest creation of [Sotha Sil](Lore_Sotha_Sil.md), one of the living gods of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md), to replicate the mythic structures of Nirn in metallic miniature. It supposedly exists "outside space and time", and in the physical world, it is represented in the form of a Clockwork Globe that is no larger than a good-sized [netch](Lore_Netch.md), and requires an individual to be magically shrunk to enter. Although represented in miniature, the realm is expansive on the inside and encompasses an entire world. It is said that, in many respects, the Clockwork City is Sotha Sil himself, thus aspects of the realm, such as how food tastes, can be decided by his will, with there being no guarantee that even magic could change what Sil has decided if he doesn't allow it.

The Clockwork City has been described by [Divayth Fyr](Lore_Divayth_Fyr.md) as an "incomprehensibly powerful world-shaping device". [Mephala's](Lore_Mephala.md) servant, the former [Psijic](Lore_Psijic_Order.md) Earl Leythen, claimed it was a "place of power", similar to the [Crystal Tower](Lore_Crystal_Tower.md), that can "change the rules of reality and remake the world". It is said that, as the Clockwork City functions as a simulacrum of the [corporeal plane](Lore_Nirn.md), making a change to the Clockwork City could also change some aspect of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) itself, as a consequence.

## Clohaigh
[Clohaigh](Lore_Clohaigh.md) is a cave and a [druidic](Lore_Druid.md) ruin located to the east of [Glimmertarn](Lore_Glimmertarn.md) on the island of [Galen](Lore_Galen.md). It was a sanctuary of great significance to the nature spirit Frii, the Sower, and was established in the early years of the Druids' presence on the island by the last [Druid King](Lore_Druid_King.md), [Kasorayn](Lore_Kasorayn.md) himself. According to local lore, Clohaigh was once a sacred site of the druidic circles. However, for reasons unknown, it was eventually abandoned and has remained unoccupied ever since.

## Clott River
The [Clott River](Lore_Clott_River.md) (or **The Clott**) is a waterway located east of [Cloudrest](Lore_Cloudrest.md) with two tributaries flowing from the [Eton Nir](Lore_Eton_Nir.md) into the northeastern shore of the [Summerset Isle](Lore_Summerset_Isle.md), to the waters of the [Auridon Strait](Lore_Auridon_Strait.md). One of the tributaries starts in the mountains near to the ruins of the Eldbur Monastery, an abandoned [Psijic Order](Lore_Psijic_Order.md) facility, while another next to the [King's Haven Pass](Lore_King%27s_Haven_Pass.md).

## Cloud Ruler Temple
[Cloud Ruler Temple](Lore_Cloud_Ruler_Temple.md) was an ancient stronghold of the [Blades](Lore_Blades.md) located high in the [Jerall Mountains](Lore_Jerall_Mountains.md) near [Bruma](Lore_Bruma.md). It is one of the most dramatic remaining examples of Akaviri architecture.

Built by [Reman Cyrodiil](Lore_Reman_Cyrodiil.md)'s [Akaviri](Lore_Akavir.md) [Dragonguard](Lore_Dragonguard.md) at the founding of the [Second Empire](Lore_Second_Empire.md), it served as their headquarters. Even as they became known as the Blades, the Emperor's agents continued to occupy Cloud Ruler Temple until the end of the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md). Legend has it the swords of those slain protecting the [Dragonborn](Lore_Dragonborn.md) were hung within the Great Hall of the temple. The archives of the temple were believed to have been the primary repository of the oldest Blades lore.

## Cloud Top
[Cloud Top](Lore_Cloud_Top.md) is a mountain in the [Colovian Highlands](Lore_Colovian_Highlands.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), in the Amber Woodland northwest of [Chorrol](Lore_Chorrol.md). The summit can be reached via a mountain path that branches off the [Orange Road](Lore_Orange_Road.md) outside Chorrol's North Gate. Cloud Top is the site of the crumbling remains of an [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) fortification. These ruins include a section of pillar carved by the [Ayleids](Lore_Ayleid.md) and infused with significant power.

## Cloudrest
[Cloudrest](Lore_Cloudrest.md) is one of the eight major cities in the province of the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md), built on the highest peaks of [Eton Nir](Lore_Eton_Nir.md), the tallest mountain in the province. Its people hold great pride in their city and the large scope of the surrounding land they can view from high above. It is the home of the [Welkynars](Lore_Welkynars.md), an elite [knightly order](Lore_Knights.md) of [gryphon](Lore_Gryphon.md) riders that have protected the province for most of its history.

## Coldharbour
[Coldharbour](Lore_Coldharbour.md) is a realm of [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md) created and ruled over by [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md), the [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Princes.md) of Domination. As befits his sphere, Bal's realm is a desolate, apocalyptic image of [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md), which is achieved by both mocking imitation and outright theft of parts of the mortal realm. It is inhabited by [Daedra](Lore_Daedra.md) and the eternally-tormented husks of mortals called [Soul Shriven](Lore_Soul_Shriven.md).

Mortals who made deals with Molag Bal can also be found living in Coldharbour. The souls of [vampires](Lore_Vampire.md) are sent to Coldharbour when they die. Coldharbour has been described as a manifestation of fear and exploitation. Descriptions of the plane vary widely, but all accounts agree that Coldharbour is a dismal, cold, and largely lifeless realm.

## College of Winterhold
The [College of Winterhold](Lore_College_of_Winterhold.md) is a school for [magic](Lore_Magic.md) in the [city of Winterhold](Lore_Winterhold_(city).md). Its campus is imposing and fortress-like, arranged around a large central courtyard and, following the [Great Collapse](Lore_Great_Collapse.md), reachable only across a narrow stone bridge. It functions much like the [Mages Guild](Lore_Mages_Guild.md) in other parts of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md), but is a resolutely independent establishment separate from the Guild. The College holds documents dating back as far as the late [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), though the College itself is even older. It is said to have been founded in the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md) by the legendary mage [Shalidor](Lore_Shalidor.md), although it is one of many dubious feats attributed to him. One of the oldest reliable mentions of the College comes from the early Second Era.

The College is a selective institution, which allows entrance only to those students who prove themselves adept at the magical arts. However, once a student earns admittance, they are granted more freedom of experimentation than in the Mages Guild, with even [Necromancy](Lore_Necromancy.md) regarded as an acceptable arcane practice. The College's main building is the Hall of the Elements, which is used for all kinds of magical practice. It holds the famous Arcanaeum library as well as the Arch-Mage's quarters, while accommodations for students and faculty are provided in separate buildings. Beneath the college campus lies the Midden, a remnant of the college's past where many of its greatest secrets lie. The [Eye of Shalidor](Lore_Aurbic_Eye.md) is the symbol of the institution and is seen on many banners and stone reliefs across campus. It symbolized leadership over both mundane and arcane mysteries.

## Colored Rooms
The [Colored Rooms](Lore_Colored_Rooms.md) are a many-faceted realm of [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md), created and ruled over by [Meridia](Lore_Meridia.md), known as the [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Princes.md) of Infinite Energies. From what little has been seen of the Colored Rooms, they seem to resemble a cross between a [coral reef](Lore_Coral.md) and a vast field of floating stones, strewn with colorful trails of dust or cloud. The "ground" between the stones looks like luminescent water, but is solid enough to walk on. The skies are described as floating effluvium oceans of crimson. It has been suggested that the "colors" of the realms are a reference to the different schools of [magic](Lore_Magic.md).

[Aurorans](Lore_Auroran.md) and their warhorses are the spawn of Meridia that reside in the Colored Rooms, being made from pure light and have skin tones of virtually any hue. [Golden Saints](Lore_Aureal.md) are also purported to reside in the realm. The Colored Rooms have been described by those souls who have been there as "pretty boring" aside from Meridia's lectures (which are described as "pretty boring" as well).

## Colovia
[Colovia](Lore_Colovia.md) (also known as the **Colovian West**, **Old Colovia**, and the **Imperial West**) is the western half of the province of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), known for their austere, hard-working, and self-sufficient people, the frontier-men of Colovia. The [Imperials](Lore_Imperial.md) of Colovia are strong-headed and hard working, with a rich martial tradition and strong work ethic. Many serve in the [Imperial Legion](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md), either as soldiers or commanders, and Colovian Timber is highly prized for both construction and weaponry.

Colovia features rugged hillscapes throughout the [Gold Road](Lore_Gold_Road.md), dense greenery in and around the [Great Forest](Lore_Great_Forest.md), and wide swathes of open grasslands throughout the [Imperial Reserve](Lore_Imperial_Reserve.md), which is famous for its bountiful hunting grounds. Much of the Colovian population live in the major cities, but some, particularly the nobility, tend to live in private estates closer to the [Gold Coast](Lore_Gold_Coast.md), while various farms and roadside inns dot the landscape. Colovia has also been described as a coastal jungle. Though Colovia's borders have shifted throughout the eras, traditionally, it contains four counties and their cities: [Anvil](Lore_Anvil.md), [Chorrol](Lore_Chorrol.md), [Kvatch](Lore_Kvatch.md), [Skingrad](Lore_Skingrad.md), and formerly [Sutch](Lore_Sutch.md).

## Colovian Highlands
The [Colovian Highlands](Lore_Colovian_Highlands.md) are a hilly, forested region on the northwest outskirts of [Colovia](Lore_Colovia.md) and the province of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). The region is known for its ancient forest, and prominent [wine](Lore_Wine.md) country, specifically for its famously robust red blends. The Colovian Highlands are a far-off region from the centers of [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) civilization but some people, such as the well-known Imperial historian Dubicius call the region their home.

## Coral Aerie
[Coral Aerie](Lore_Coral_Aerie.md) is a small island found off the northern coast of [Summerset Isle](Lore_Summerset_Isle.md), in the province of the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md). This little islet far off the coast of Summerset sports high cliffs and deep tide pools that serve as popular breeding grounds for numerous species of maritime fauna, migratory birds, and large predators, such as [gryphons](Lore_Gryphon.md). Partially-submerged ancient [Aldmeri](Lore_Aldmer.md) ruins of are one of the dominant features of the islet.

## Coral Cliffs
[Coral Cliffs](Lore_Coral_Cliffs.md) is a [druidic](Lore_Druid.md) settlement located off the northern coast of the [Amenos](Lore_Amenos.md), one of the islands of the [Systres Archipelago](Lore_Systres_Archipelago.md). This rocky cove is inhabited by the members of the [Eldertide Circle](Lore_Eldertide_Circle.md) and is considered to be one of their strongholds. The Druids of the Eldertide resided in a complex of caverns near the shore, in addition to the hovels aboveground. It is near [Hadolid](Lore_Hadolid.md) molting grounds.

## Coral Forest
The [Coral Forest](Lore_Coral_Forest.md) is an iconic landscape on [Summerset Isle](Lore_Summerset_Isle.md), located south of [Shimmerene](Lore_Shimmerene.md). This place consists of a dense collection of petrified [coral](Lore_Coral.md) which creates a strange, labyrinthine landscape of collar pillars along the island's eastern shore, where [coral crabs](Lore_Coral_Crab.md), [mud hoppers](Lore_Mud_Hopper.md) and [reef vipers](Lore_Reef_Viper.md) hatch and thrive. It is commonly known to be a dangerous place for travelers and adventurers.

Circa [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), Tilcalar, the Aldarch of the Monastery of Serene Harmony, secretly became the Earl of [Clavicus Vile](Lore_Clavicus_Vile.md) and one of the three leaders of the [Court of Bedlam](Lore_Court_of_Bedlam.md). He was instructed by Kinlady Avinisse to activate an [Abyssal Pearl](Lore_Abyssal_Pearl.md) within the Coral Forest, most likely with intentions of creating an Abyssal Geyser near Shimmerene in order to sink Summerset Isle beneath the sea. His plans were foiled when [the Vestige](Lore_The_Vestige.md) confronted and killed him in the Coral Forest. A [Psijic](Lore_Psijic_Order.md) named [Valsirenn](Lore_Valsirenn.md) then magically transported the Abyssal Pearl to [Artaeum](Lore_Artaeum.md) so that this [Sea Sload](Lore_Sea_Sload.md) artifact could be studied further.

## Corbolo River
The [Corbolo River](Lore_Corbolo_River.md) is one of the largest tributaries of the [Niben River](Lore_Niben_River.md), which it joins at the northeast corner of the [Niben Bay](Lore_Niben_Bay.md). The river extends further north in the wilderness until it reaches a fork that connects to the [Reed River](Lore_Reed_River.md), which empties from the [Valus Mountains](Lore_Valus_Mountains.md) in the northeast and the stream that empties from [Lake Poppad](Lore_Lake_Poppad.md) in the northwest. The [Yellow Road](Lore_Yellow_Road.md) runs over the river via the Crestbridge, right next to the ruined [Fort Cedrian](Lore_Fort_Cedrian.md). The county seat of [Cheydinhal](Lore_Cheydinhal.md) is found on the banks of the Corbolo, and the settlement, [Drakelowe](Lore_Drakelowe.md) overlooks the river valley near the fork. It is next to a large drawbridge that leads deeper into the [Nibenay Basin](Lore_Nibenay_Basin.md).

## Corgrad Wastes
[Corgrad Wastes](Lore_Corgrad_Wastes.md) (originally called **Corgrad**) is a historical settlement found on the northern coast of [Summerset Isle](Lore_Summerset_Isle.md), the largest island in the province of the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md). For the longest time, it was a derelict, sunken ruin from the late [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md), a relic of the [Thrassian Plague](Lore_Thrassian_Plague.md) outbreak that devastated much of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). Since its destruction, the local [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md) avoided the site and it became a safe haven for outcasts of society.

## Corkarth Run
[Corkarth Run](Lore_Corkarth_Run.md) (also named **Rathendis Falls**) is a settlement located in a mudflat area of [Thornmarsh](Lore_Thornmarsh.md) in southeastern [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md), in the jurisdiction of the Great [House Dres](Lore_House_Dres.md). It is north of the city of [Tear](Lore_Tear.md).

## Corinthe
[Corinthe](Lore_Corinthe.md) (alternatively known as **Corinth**) is one of the eight major cities in the province of [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md), located in the very heart of the province. Back in ancient times, Corinthe was the seat of power for one of sixteen kingdoms that dominated ancient Elsweyr, each of them mastered a specific discipline. The [Khajiit](Lore_Khajiit.md) of Corinthe were master carpenters and lumberers.

## Cormaris View
[Cormaris View](Lore_Cormaris_View.md) (also known as **Cormar View**) is a settlement found in the Great Valley region northwest [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md), near the city-state of [Blacklight](Lore_Blacklight.md).

## Cragwallow
[Cragwallow](Lore_Cragwallow.md) is an old settlement found in the wilds of [Eastmarch](Lore_Eastmarch.md), in the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). It has existed for many years, it was even the home of the powerful Icehammer Clan before their demise in the late-quarter of the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md). By the mid- [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), it was a mead hall populated by the royal workers of High King [Jorunn](Lore_Jorunn.md), who built the roads that ran through the hold's major routes. The nearby caves share the same name with the settlement.

## Cropsford
[Cropsford](Lore_Cropsford.md) is a settlement located along the [Yellow Road](Lore_Yellow_Road.md) in the [Nibenay Basin](Lore_Nibenay_Basin.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). The land is in the center of [goblin](Lore_Goblin.md) territory, which has historically caused trouble for settlers.

## Crowhaven
[Crowhaven](Lore_Crowhaven.md) is a fort located along the [Gold Coast](Lore_Gold_Coast.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), in [County Anvil](Lore_County_Anvil.md). During the Second Era, it belonged to the Jarol family and was known as **Jarol Estate**. It later went on to become the home of the [Lord Lovidicus](Lore_Lovidicus.md), but fell into ruin and became home to a den of feral [vampires](Lore_Vampire.md). It is located near the ancient [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleids.md) settlement of [Garlas Malatar](Lore_Garlas_Malatar.md).

## Cryngaine Field
[Cryngaine Field](Lore_Cryngaine_Field.md) (pronounced ***kree** -gain*) is a region found in southern [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md). It is known for its flowering meadowland. It is located near the [Fiefdom of Anticlere](Lore_Anticlere.md), but it is specifically found between the [Ravennian Forest](Lore_Ravennian_Forest.md) and the [Yeorth Burrowland](Lore_Yeorth_Burrowland.md). It is most well-known for the [Battle of Cryngaine Field](Lore_Battle_of_Cryngaine_Field.md), the final confrontation in the [War of Betony](Lore_War_of_Betony.md), between the kingdoms of [Daggerfall](Lore_Daggerfall_(kingdom).md) and [Sentinel](Lore_Sentinel_(kingdom).md).

## Crypt of Hearts
The [Crypt of Hearts](Lore_Crypt_of_Hearts.md) is a multi-level mausoleum located in northern [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) made up of dank, winding passageways filled with strange creatures. The city of [Shornhelm](Lore_Shornhelm.md) is sometimes referred to as "the Keeper of the Crypt", and both are located in the [Rivenspire](Lore_Rivenspire.md) region in [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md), specifically in [Markwasten Moor](Lore_Markwasten_Moor.md). The area that the Crypt of Hearts was built on is also considered part of the [Western Reach](Lore_Western_Reach.md), and it was known to be infested with creatures native to the region such as [floaters](Lore_Floater.md).

## Crystal Tower
The [Crystal Tower](Lore_Crystal_Tower.md) (also called the **[Crystal-Like-Law](Lore_The_Towers.md#Crystal-Like-Law)** or **Lawful Crystal**) was an ancient, mystical structure located near the northern tip of [Summerset Isle](Lore_Summerset_Isle.md), northwest of [Cloudrest](Lore_Cloudrest.md). It was built by the early [Aldmer](Lore_Aldmer.md) as a monument to their ancestors, and was considered sacred to the [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md).

Before the construction of the [Arcane University](Lore_Arcane_University.md), it was the pinnacle of magical learning in [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). The top of the Crystal Tower was reserved for interring the dead. While describing the tower, [Ria Silmane](Lore_Ria_Silmane.md) mentioned to the [Eternal Champion](Lore_Eternal_Champion.md) a claim that the southernmost tips of the [Dragon's Teeth Mountains](Lore_Dragon%27s_Teeth_Mountains.md) of mainland Tamriel could be seen from the top parapet of the tower. The interior of the tower was white and radiated light. It contained a Great Library and a treasury with many ancient tapestries and other relics, such as [Topal the Pilot](Lore_Topal_the_Pilot.md)'s old maps. The Crystal Tower was also famed for The Bestiary, a menagerie of many dangerous creatures which were tended by [trolls](Lore_Troll.md).

The Crystal Tower was one of the mythical [Towers](Lore_The_Towers.md) that stabilize the [Mundus](Lore_Mundus.md). It was present in all realms of the [Aurbis](Lore_Aurbis.md) simultaneously, acting as a gateway to all realities. The Tower's Stone was called [Transparent Law](Lore_Transparent_Law.md), which was placed at the Tower's summit on [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md), and anchored the Tower to other realities. The Tower provided mystical protection to the whole of Summerset. Its Stone, Transparent Law was theorized by the [Sapiarchs](Lore_Sapiarchs.md) to be a fragment of divinity given physical substance, and thought to absorb the "drive for perfection that marks the Altmer" and reflect it back thus "driving away any imperfections that would weaken or endanger the island". It has been theorized that control of the Crystal Tower—through Transparent Law—could grant one omnipresence in the entire Aurbis.

## Culotte
[Culotte](Lore_Culotte.md) is an [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) ruin located along the banks of the [Upper Niben](Lore_Upper_Niben.md), in the [Heartlands](Lore_Heartlands.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md).

During the [Alessian Slave Rebellion](Lore_Alessian_Slave_Rebellion.md), Culotte became home to one of the [Ten Ancestors](Lore_Ten_Ancestors.md), Ayleid statues originally held in the [White-Gold Tower](Lore_White-Gold_Tower.md) which were dispersed to cities across Cyrodiil for safekeeping. Culotte subsequently fell into ruin after the Ayleids' downfall.

The ruins of the settlement were once known to attract undead of all kinds. Circa [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), the nearby settlement of [Cropsford](Lore_Cropsford.md) was occasionally threatened by the undead that flocked to Culotte, prompting the townsfolk to periodically clear the ruins. Eventually Culotte was cleared of undead. In [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433), the [Hero of Kvatch](Lore_Hero.md) entered the ruins and retrieved the ancient Ayleid statue, causing the dead to rise from their graves and once again plague the ruins. The statue was later sold to [Umbacano](Lore_Umbacano.md).

## Cybiades
[Cybiades](Lore_Cybiades.md) is an island off the northern coast of [Sentinel](Lore_Sentinel_(kingdom).md), within the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md). It has a tropical coastal climate with a vibrant variety of plantlife. The people of Cybiades create an oil condiment from hot peppers.

By [the fifth century of the Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md#Fifth_Century), the only notable structure on the island was the ruins of Cosh Hall, where armed [human](Lore_Human.md) squatters had taken up residence. Although otherwise uninhabited, Cybiades was considered a separate political entity until the [Warp in the West](Lore_Warp_in_the_West.md), when it was most likely subsumed by the massive expansion of the Kingdom of Sentinel.

## Cylarne
[Cylarne](Lore_Cylarne.md) was a ruin in the [Shivering Isles](Lore_Shivering_Isles.md) at the end of the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), located on the Isle of Flame. It is the oldest known ruin in the Isles, and is rumored to be the original capital of the Shivering Isles. The ruins of Cylarne are home to the [Cold Flame of Agnon](Lore_Cold_Flame_of_Agnon.md), which is fed by the altars of Rapture and Despair. The [Dark Seducers](Lore_Dark_Seducer.md) and [Golden Saints](Lore_Golden_Saint.md) constantly fought over controlling the ruin.

## Cyrodiil
[Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), sometimes shortened to **Cyrod** (and also known as the **Imperial Province**, **[Dragon](Lore_Dragon.md) Empire**, **Red King**, **Starry Heart of [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md)**, or **Seat of Sundered Kings**), is a province in south-central [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) that is home to the human race known as [Imperials](Lore_Imperial.md). As the central region of Tamriel, Cyrodiil is also known as "the Heartland." The capital of both Cyrodiil and the [Holy Cyrodilic Empire of Tamriel](Lore_Empire_of_Tamriel.md), the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md), is located on [City Isle](Lore_City_Isle.md) in the center of the province; at the heart of the city is [White-Gold Tower](Lore_White-Gold_Tower.md), possibly the most renowned monument in Tamriel. The Imperial City itself has been considered the sole city-state of the Imperial Province, with [Colovia](Lore_Colovia.md) and [Nibenay](Lore_Nibenay.md) being outlying territories of the state of Cyrodiil. The name "Cyrodiil" itself is ancient elven in origin, and the "-iil" suffix it features means "folk." The name is a pretty blanket term almost every element of the Imperial Province: the people are called "[the Cyrodiils](Lore_Imperial.md)," the city-state of the land is called "[Cyrodiil](Lore_Imperial_City.md)," and the ruler of the land no matter their origin is called "[The Cyrodiil](Lore_Emperor.md)." This is derived from a king-is-the-land tradition that reaches back to when the [Ayleids](Lore_Ayleid.md) ruled the land (hence the land's "Red King" sobriquet).

Despite some accounts describing Cyrodiil as a jungle, it has a primarily temperate climate. One scholar of the middle [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md) attributed this discrepancy to errors made during the transcription of historical texts, while another speculated that White-Gold Tower itself adapted the climate to suit the region's inhabitants. Later sources asserted that Emperor [Tiber Septim](Lore_Tiber_Septim.md) altered Cyrodiil's climate after he united all the provinces under his rule.

## References
1. [^](#cite_ref-ATOTD_1-0) [*Ancient Tales of the Dwemer*](Lore_Ancient_Tales_of_the_Dwemer.md) — [Marobar Sul](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Marobar_Sul)
2. [^](#cite_ref-RGMap_2-0) [Map of West Tamriel – *The Elder Scrolls Adventures: Redguard*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:RG-map-West_Tamriel-1024x768.png)
3. [^](#cite_ref-ESO_3-0) Area location in [ESO](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Online)