# Places N

[Overview](Lore_Places.md) | [A](Lore_Places_A.md) [B](Lore_Places_B.md) [C](Lore_Places_C.md) [D](Lore_Places_D.md) [E](Lore_Places_E.md) [F](Lore_Places_F.md) [G](Lore_Places_G.md) [H](Lore_Places_H.md) [I](Lore_Places_I.md) [J](Lore_Places_J.md) [K](Lore_Places_K.md) [L](Lore_Places_L.md) [M](Lore_Places_M.md) N [O](Lore_Places_O.md) [P](Lore_Places_P.md) [Q](Lore_Places_Q.md) [R](Lore_Places_R.md) [S](Lore_Places_S.md) [T](Lore_Places_T.md) [U](Lore_Places_U.md) [V](Lore_Places_V.md) [W](Lore_Places_W.md) [X](Lore_Places_X.md) [Y](Lore_Places_Y.md) [Z](Lore_Places_Z.md) | [Maps](Lore_Maps.md)
---

## Lake Nabia
[Lake Nabia](Lore_Lake_Nabia.md) is a body of water located in south-central [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md), in the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). It is the only body of water in the desolate wastes of [Molag Amur](Lore_Molag_Amur.md), and traces of lava are beyond the hills around it. The lake shares its name with the river it drains into the southeast. On the lake's southern shore is an ancient [Chimeri](Lore_Chimer.md) stronghold called Marandus, and on its southeast shore next to the Nabia estuary is the Vandas Ancestral Tomb. There is also a cave on its northwest shore called Punabi.

## Nalonga
[Nalonga](Lore_Nalonga.md) is a large island in the [Eltheric Ocean](Lore_Eltheric_Ocean.md), south of the [Sea of Pearls](Lore_Sea_of_Pearls.md), that is possibly considered a part of the [Yokudan](Lore_Yokuda.md) archipelago. A rather large bay cuts into the southern coast. The similarly sized island of [Ravan](Lore_Ravan.md) neighbors it to the southeast, with the smaller [Asil Yelir](Lore_Asil_Yelir.md) between them. [Siuol Yelir](Lore_Siuol_Yelir.md) is just south of Nalonga.

In the late [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), there was a settlement named Zanzar on the northwest side of the island.

## Narfinsel
[Narfinsel](Lore_Narfinsel.md) (or **Narsinfel**) is an [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) ruin located deep in the [Great Forest](Lore_Great_Forest.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), southeast of [Chorrol](Lore_Chorrol.md). In the late [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md), an event known as the [Narfinsel Schism](Lore_Narfinsel_Schism.md) marked the beginning of a violent internal conflict among the Ayleid city-states of Cyrodiil. This conflict between the [Aedra](Lore_Aedra.md) -worshipping [Barsaebics](Lore_Barsaebics.md) and the [Daedra](Lore_Daedra.md) -worshipping Daedraphiles reached a climax in [1E 198](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_198) at the Scouring of [Wendelbek](Lore_Wendelbek.md), which ended all organized opposition to Daedra worship. However, the [Alessian Slave Rebellion](Lore_Alessian_Slave_Rebellion.md) began less than fifty years later, forcing most Ayleids to flee Cyrodiil or perish at the hands of the [Nedes](Lore_Nede.md). Narfinsel subsequently fell into ruin.

Following the [Soulburst](Lore_Soulburst.md) of [2E 578](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_578), the ruins of Narfinsel became haunted by dangerous [ghosts](Lore_Ghost.md). One such ghost was a guard captain named Captain Minwe who perished at the ruins. Circa [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), her friend Lliae the Quick continually sent [Alliance War](Lore_Alliance_War.md) soldiers to the ruins to put her spirit to rest. Her efforts proved fruitless, as Minwe's ghost would always return after a time. The [Rock Bone Tribe](Lore_Goblin.md#Rock_Bone_Tribe) also attempted to take over the ruins and fought against the spirits of the Ayleid ghosts.

By [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433), the ruins had been taken over by monsters from the wilderness.

## Narsis
[Narsis](Lore_Narsis.md) is one of the eight major cities on the mainland of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md), and is built on the southern shores of [Lake Hlaalu](Lore_Lake_Hlaalu.md). The city is historically known as the ancient capital of the former [Great House Hlaalu](Lore_House_Hlaalu.md), whose sphere of influence revolved around mercantilism and adaptation. They once reigned over west-central Morrowind. When it was originally founded in the [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md), it was known as **Narsis-Where-All-Fervently-Praise-the-Prophet-Veloth** until it was shortened to its current name.

## Nchardak
[Nchardak](Lore_Nchardak.md), also known as the "City of a Hundred Towers", was a [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md) city located off the east coast of [Solstheim](Lore_Solstheim.md). It was believed to be the largest, and perhaps the most advanced, of the great Dwemer Archives.

The city was considered to be a marvel of engineering, even by Dwemer standards, as it employed a complex system of pumps, aqueducts and boilers that released steam into various parts of the city. Using various control cubes, the Dwemer were able raise and lower the entire city into the sea at will. Legends tell of the time when invading [Nords](Lore_Nord.md) attempted to conquer it. In response, the Dwemer submerged the city beneath the sea until the Nords gave up.

## Nchuleft
[Nchuleft](Lore_Nchuleft.md) is a ruined Dwemer [freehold colony](Lore_Dwemer_Ruins.md) found on the island district of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md) in the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). Situated on the edge of the [Grazelands](Lore_Grazelands.md), the former city was believed to be a heavy manufacturing facility. Deep inside the ruins is a large machine that churns and vibrates. It goes from the ceiling to the lava bed. While Nchuleft's defenses continue to be active, it has since been used by the local [Zainab Tribe](Lore_Zainab_Tribe.md), who scavenge the ruins for curios of varying values.

## Nchuleftingth
[Nchuleftingth](Lore_Nchuleftingth.md) is a large ruined [dwarven citadel](Lore_Dwemer_Ruins.md) found on the mountain slopes of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md), in the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). Situated in the volcanic wastes of [Molag Amur](Lore_Molag_Amur.md), it is found in the middle of [Foyada Nadanat](Lore_Foyada_Nadanat.md) which allows easy access to the site. The ruins were built in the latter years of [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md) activity in the region for unspecified research purposes. Scholars have theorized and speculated on what exactly was being researched, but what is known is that Nchuleftingth is one of the two biggest dwarven sites on the island, the other being Mzuleft on the north coast.

## Ne Quin-al (city)
[Ne Quin-al](Lore_Ne_Quin-al_(city).md) was a settlement located in north-central [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md) and served as the capital of [Anequina](Lore_Anequina.md), the northern kingdom of the province. After the [Elsweyr Confederacy](Lore_Elsweyr_Confederacy.md)'s formation in [2E 309](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_309), the city became the province's capital for a brief time until it fell to [Khajiiti](Lore_Khajiit.md) rebels in [2E 326](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_326). The settlement's [Temple of Two-Moons Dance](Lore_Temple_of_Two-Moons_Dance.md) was still famous in the modern age, by at least the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md).

## Necrom
[Necrom](Lore_Necrom.md) is one of the eight major cities on the mainland of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md), and is perched on the [Padomaic Ocean](Lore_Padomaic_Ocean.md), right on the eastern edge of the [Padomaic Crest](Lore_Padomaic_Crest.md). The city is the center of [ancestor worship](Lore_Ancestor_Worship.md) in Morrowind and has thus earned the moniker, the **City of the Dead**. But despite the nature of this name, Necrom can be a teeming and bustling metropolis for commerce, pilgrims, and the mournful all day and night. While modern [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) left their ancient customs behind, Necrom helps them re-connect with that lost part of their history and their ancestry.

Throughout its history Necrom has been traditionally ruled by the [Keepers of the Dead](Lore_Keepers_of_the_Dead.md), a monastic order that serve as caretakers of the city and its necropolis. The Keepers answer to the authority of the [Temple](Lore_Tribunal_Temple.md). The eastern coast is presently ruled over by [House Indoril](Lore_House_Indoril.md), which as of the [Fourth Era](Lore_Fourth_Era.md), is considered one and the same with the [New Temple](Lore_New_Temple.md).

## Necromancer's Moon
The [Necromancer's Moon](Lore_Necromancer%27s_Moon.md), also known as **the Revenant**, is a [moon](Lore_Moons.md) and the divine body of the God of Worms, [Mannimarco](Lore_Mannimarco.md). It was created by the [Warp in the West](Lore_Warp_in_the_West.md) in [3E 417](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_417) when Mannimarco used the power of the [Mantella](Lore_Mantella.md) to fuel his transfiguration and apotheosis.

The Necromancer's Moon eclipses the planet [Arkay](Lore_Arkay_(planet).md) every eight days, preventing its light from reaching Nirn for 24 hours. This celestial phenomenon is known as the Shade of the Revenant, and casts a purple or red light down on certain locations across [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) during this period. The purpose of this eclipse is to foil the divine laws of [Arkay](Lore_Arkay.md), allowing Mannimarco to be the only god of life and death. The [Cult of the Black Worm](Lore_Cult_of_the_Black_Worm.md) worship Mannimarco as the God of Worms, and construct altars to him at these locations to harness the Shade of the Revenant for use in creating [black soul gems](Lore_Black_Soul_Gem.md).

## Nenalata
[Nenalata](Lore_Nenalata.md) is an Ayleid ruin located on the eastern shore of the [Niben Bay](Lore_Niben_Bay.md) at the mouth of the [Silverfish River](Lore_Silverfish_River.md). It was the last Ayleid city in [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) during the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md), lasting three centuries after the Fall of White Gold Tower.

## Nenyond Twyll
[Nenyond Twyll](Lore_Nenyond_Twyll.md) (meaning "*Graywater Well"* in [Ayleidoon](Lore_Ayleidoon.md)), colloquially known as **Juras Falls** is an [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) ruin found off the [Green Road](Lore_Green_Road.md) in the region of the [Great Forest](Lore_Great_Forest.md), in the province of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md).

During the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md) in the mid- [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), the [Three Banners War](Lore_Three_Banners_War.md) had ravaged across central Cyrodiil, and so Nenyond Twyll was in the territory considered a part of the [Aldmeri Dominion](Lore_Aldmeri_Dominion.md). There was a skirmish that the [Imperial Legion](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md), led by Captain Juras had become involved in. In the end, Captain Juras was killed in battle, and the ruins were called Juras Falls ever since. His spirit would haunt the site, hence the name. It was until the spirit was put to rest by a [wandering soldier](Lore_Soulless_One.md) of the alliances.

During the [Oblivion Crisis](Lore_Oblivion_Crisis.md) in [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433), a group of [Necromancers](Lore_Necromancy.md) had taken refuge in Nenyond Twyll, during the practice's rise in popularity in Cyrodiil. A mage of the [Mages Guild](Lore_Mages_Guild.md) was sent to infiltrate the coven, but was later discovered. A group of warriors was sent to bring him back but they failed. And so, Arch-Mage [Hannibal Traven](Lore_Hannibal_Traven.md) had sent a [Magician](Lore_Hero_of_Kvatch.md) of the Guild to retrieve their spy. The Necromancer coven was defeated, but the spy was made a thrall.

## Neugrad Watch
[Neugrad Watch](Lore_Neugrad_Watch.md) was a small settlement in southwestern [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), contemporary with the [Imperial Simulacrum](Lore_Imperial_Simulacrum.md). During the Simulacrum, Neugrad Watch was ruled by Lord Fenrens and had a rivalry with [North Keep](Lore_North_Keep.md). It was neighbored by several settlements, including [Falkreath](Lore_Falkreath.md) to the southwest, and [Oakwood](Lore_Oakwood.md) to the northeast. It has been claimed that a group of "Wild [Automatons](Lore_Dwemer_Animunculi.md)" destroyed the settlement circa [4E 100-105](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_100-105), with the refugees moving to [Helgen](Lore_Helgen.md). By [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201), the settlement had been abandoned and all that remained were the ruins of **Fort Neugrad**, occupied by a small number of guards.

Because of avalanches in the [Pale Pass](Lore_Pale_Pass.md) and the destruction of Helgen by [Alduin](Lore_Alduin.md), a group of bandits successfully overran the fort in 4E 201. The old library was looted by Brandish, a member of the bandits, in search of magical items. The bandits had intended to clear out before the Jarl of Falkreath could react, but the [Imperial Legion](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md) retook the fort for use as a strong point during the [Stormcloak Rebellion](Lore_Stormcloak_Rebellion.md). However, morale was low and reinforcements were unable to make it through the closed Pale Pass. The fort served as a point of contention between the Legion and the [Stormcloaks](Lore_Stormcloaks.md), with the Stormcloaks vying for control of the fort in order to conquer Falkreath Hold.

## New Sheoth
[New Sheoth](Lore_New_Sheoth.md) is the ever-changing capital of the [Shivering Isles](Lore_Shivering_Isles.md) and the seat of [Lord Sheogorath](Lore_Sheogorath.md). It is located in the eastern part of the Isles, at the feet of the Jester's Spine Mountains. It is placed on the border between [Mania](Lore_Mania.md) and [Dementia](Lore_Dementia_(place).md), the two halves of the Isles. The city itself is divided into two districts, **Bliss** on the Manic side and **Crucible** on the Demented. New Sheoth Palace overlooks the city; contained within is the Palace of Sheogorath, as well as the Houses of Mania and Dementia. The [Sacellum Arden-Sul](Lore_Arden-Sul.md) is located at the base of the Great Torch. The ruins of Xirethard are mostly located beneath the city. Like everywhere in the Isles, root tunnels run deep below the city. Of particular interest is [the Fountainhead](Lore_The_Fountainhead.md), where the insanity of the realm's inhabitants settles to supply the waters of the Font of Madness.

## Niben Bay
The [Niben Bay](Lore_Niben_Bay.md) (also called the **Nibenay Bay** and historically **Lake Makapi** to the [Khajiit](Lore_Khajiit.md)) is a large body of water lying dead in the middle of the [Nibenay](Lore_Nibenay.md), in the province of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). The bay is the center of the [Nibenay Valley](Lore_Nibenay_Valley.md), an important region in the trade of eastern Cyrodiil. Many rivers flows into it such as the [Larsius](Lore_Larsius_River.md), the [Upper Niben](Lore_Niben_River.md), the [Corbolo](Lore_Corbolo_River.md), the [Silverfish](Lore_Silverfish_River.md) and the [Panther](Lore_Panther_River.md). The Niben Bay drains into the [Lower Niben](Lore_Niben_River.md), that connects it to the [Topal Bay](Lore_Topal_Bay.md). The water of both the Niben Bay and Lower Niben is saltwater. Underneath the Niben Bay is a large subsection of caverns that extends from the center of the bay to an old [Temple of the Emperor Zero](Lore_Temple_of_the_Emperor_Zero.md) called the **Bravil Wizard's Grotto**.

## Niben River
The [Niben River](Lore_Niben_River.md), also known as the **Imperial Run**, **Red River**, or **River Malapi** by the [Khajiit](Lore_Khajiit.md), is a large river in [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). Its source is [Lake Rumare](Lore_Lake_Rumare.md) in the Heartlands and it empties into the [Topal Bay](Lore_Topal_Bay.md).

## Nibenay
[Nibenay](Lore_Nibenay.md), also knows as the **Nibenean East**, is the eastern part of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) and is the traditional heart of the [Empire](Lore_Empire.md), comprising the modern counties of [Cheydinhal](Lore_Cheydinhal.md), [Bruma](Lore_Bruma.md), [Bravil](Lore_Bravil.md) and [Leyawiin](Lore_Leyawiin.md), as well as the [Heartlands](Lore_Heartlands.md) around [City Isle](Lore_City_Isle.md). The Nibenese culture is considered esoteric and philosophical, with focus on elaborate ceremony. Outside of the capital cities, the largest settlements in the region include [Caer Suvio](Lore_Caer_Suvio.md) and [Mir Corrup](Lore_Mir_Corrup.md).

The largest regions in Nibenay are the eponymous [Nibenay Valley](Lore_Nibenay_Valley.md) and [Nibenay Basin](Lore_Nibenay_Basin.md), the former nominally including the western bank of the [Upper Niben](Lore_Upper_Niben.md) from County Bravil to the Heartlands, and the latter encompassing the eastern side of the Upper Niben and its tributaries; the [Corbolo](Lore_Corbolo_River.md), [Reed](Lore_Reed_River.md) and [Silverfish](Lore_Silverfish_River.md). South of [Niben Bay](Lore_Niben_Bay.md) sits the dark swampland of [Blackwood](Lore_Blackwood.md), largely synonymous with the county of Leyawiin. The far northern and eastern parts of the region give way to the [Jerall](Lore_Jerall_Mountains.md) and [Valus](Lore_Valus_Mountains.md) mountain ranges, respectively. The Jerall city of Bruma, though Nibenese in customs, boasts an architectural style that is more [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) in design. Similarly, there are aspects of [Dunmeri](Lore_Dunmer.md) architecture in the eastern city of Cheydinhal.

## Nibenay Basin
The [Nibenay Basin](Lore_Nibenay_Basin.md) is subregion of [Nibenay](Lore_Nibenay.md) that consists primarily of the eastern side of the valley of the [Niben](Lore_Niben_River.md), and its tributaries. It's mostly an open, agricultural area where the [Nibenese](Lore_Nibenay.md) [Imperials](Lore_Imperial.md) hail from. The regions of the [Nibenay Valley](Lore_Nibenay_Valley.md) and the [Heartlands](Lore_Heartlands.md) are sometimes considered as an extension of the Nibenay Basin area, with the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md) being located on an [island](Lore_City_Isle.md) at the head of the valley. Beyond the [Cheydinhal](Lore_Cheydinhal.md) foothills at the eastern end of the basin, the [Valus Mountains](Lore_Valus_Mountains.md) form the border with the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). To the south, the [Panther River](Lore_Panther_River.md) marks the border with [Blackwood](Lore_Blackwood.md).

As the drainage basin of the Niben, a number of tributaries and solitary lakes can be found in the region. These include the [Reed](Lore_Reed_River.md), [Corbolo](Lore_Corbolo_River.md) and [Silverfish](Lore_Silverfish_River.md) rivers, and the lakes [Arrius](Lore_Lake_Arrius.md), [Poppad](Lore_Lake_Poppad.md) and [Canulus](Lore_Lake_Canulus.md).

## Nibenay Valley
The [Nibenay Valley](Lore_Nibenay_Valley.md) (also called the **Niben Valley** or the **Nibenean Valley**) is a subregion of [Nibenay](Lore_Nibenay.md) in eastern [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), centered around the [River Niben](Lore_River_Niben.md). It is described as a tropical region enclosed by an equatorial rain forest and broken up by rivers. At the southern end of the region lies [Niben Bay](Lore_Niben_Bay.md), while to the north, the region extends into the [Heartlands](Lore_Heartlands.md) around [Lake Rumare](Lore_Lake_Rumare.md). South of the region lies the dark and brooding [Blackwood](Lore_Blackwood.md); in the west, the [West Weald](Lore_West_Weald.md) and [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md); to the east, the [Nibenay Basin](Lore_Nibenay_Basin.md); and to the northwest, the [Great Forest](Lore_Great_Forest.md). Running from north to south are the Green Road in the west and the Yellow Road in the east. The city of [Bravil](Lore_Bravil.md) lies in the western portion of the region.

[Bergamot](Lore_Bergamot.md) grows particularly densely around Bravil, as does [Mandrake](Lore_Mandrake.md) and [Nightshade](Lore_Nightshade.md). The eastern bank of the [Niben River](Lore_Niben_River.md) is thick with [Foxglove](Lore_Foxglove.md), [Monkshood](Lore_Monkshood.md), and [Summer Bolete](Lore_Summer_Bolete.md). Many other plants thrive in the region, including [Nirnroot](Lore_Nirnroot.md).

[Olive](Lore_Olive.md) wood of the Niben Valley is commonly used by the [House Hexos](Lore_House_Hexos.md) in the process of crafting weaponry.

## Nightside Asylum
[Nightside Asylum](Lore_Nightside_Asylum.md) was the secret headquarters of the [Dark Brotherhood](Lore_Dark_Brotherhood.md), which may or may not be located in the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md) region.<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_nb1)</sup> A [Night Mother](Lore_Night_Mother.md) resided within the Asylum as the sanctuary's leader.

## Nimalten
[Nimalten](Lore_Nimalten.md) (sometimes called **Nimalten City**) is an ancient settlement located in [the Rift](Lore_The_Rift.md), on the banks of the [Treva River](Lore_Treva_River.md) in [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). Nimalten Barrow is a series of extensive vaults built beneath the town, which were extended for thousands of years due to the fact that certain families refused to bury their dead in the same chamber as certain other families.

In [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), Nimalten was ruled by Thane Fjora. The town was targeted by the [Worm Cult](Lore_Worm_Cult.md), who overran the barrow and made several attempts on the thane's life before being driven off by the [Ebonheart Pact](Lore_Ebonheart_Pact.md).

During the [Imperial Simulacrum](Lore_Imperial_Simulacrum.md), the village of Nimalten City was an active settlement, being ruled by Lord Ingmik. It had a rivalry with [Pargran Village](Lore_Pargran_Village.md) and [Riverwood](Lore_Riverwood.md), It was neighbored by several settlements, including [Sunguard](Lore_Sunguard.md) in the southeast, and [Whiterun](Lore_Whiterun.md) in the northwest. By [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201) no trace of the settlement remained.

## Ninendava
[Ninendava](Lore_Ninendava.md) is an [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) [ruin](Lore_Ayleid_Ruins.md) located in the Twilight Woods, close to the ancient city of [Sancre Tor](Lore_Sancre_Tor.md) in the [Jerall Mountains](Lore_Jerall_Mountains.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). It is known for the "goat-faced altar of Ninendava", which is somehow related to Daedric rituals. It was among the only modern Ayleid sites that still bore their ancient names by the time of the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md).

## Nirn
[Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md) (which means '[Gray Maybe](Lore_Aurbis.md)' in [Ehlnofex](Lore_Ehlnofex_Languages.md)),<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_nb1)</sup> or the **mortal Aurbis**, is the Mortal Plane, the planet upon which Tamriel and the mortal races reside. It floats in the void of [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md) and comprises the core of the region known as [Mundus](Lore_Mundus.md). Some sources use the terms *Nirn* and *Mundus* synonymously, though others describe Mundus as a more expansive structure which extends past Nirn itself and encompasses additional regions and [planes](Lore_Planes_of_Existence.md).. The origin of Nirn is a matter shrouded in much ambiguity, and different creation myths propose different events leading to its creation. It is commonly thought to have been created during the [Dawn Era](Lore_Dawn_Era.md) by the [Aedra](Lore_Aedra.md) and [Magna Ge](Lore_Magna_Ge.md), based on [Lorkhan](Lore_Lorkhan.md)'s inspiration and, per some sources, [Magnus](Lore_Magnus_(god).md)' designs. Though other sources propose different origins, which include Nirn being a direct creation of [Anu](Lore_Anu.md), or being a [deity](Lore_Gods.md), the goddess Nirni. Some sources claim that the existence of Nirn and Mundus, normally impossible, was allowed to come into being through the power of the [Magna-Ge](Lore_Magna_Ge.md) [Londa-Vera](Lore_Londa-Vera.md), the Green Star, the embodiment of the feminine power of [magic](Lore_Magic.md) that exists everywhere and nowhere at once.

## Nisin Cave
[Nisin Cave](Lore_Nisin_Cave.md) is a natural cave network found in the Southern Woodlands of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md)'s [West Weald](Lore_West_Weald.md), east of [Skingrad](Lore_Skingrad.md) and southeast of [Vlastarus](Lore_Vlastarus.md).

## Nohotogrha
[Nohotogrha](Lore_Nohotogrha.md) is an oasis within [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md). The [Devotees](Lore_Satakals.md) of [Satakal](Lore_Satakal.md) have been seen rolling in the desert sand sidewinder-fashion in continuous, hundred-mile stretches, from [Balhar](Lore_Balhar.md) all the way to the Nohotogrha oasis.

The [face sculptor](Lore_Flesh_Sculpture.md) [Galathil](Lore_Galathil.md) of the [Cloudrest](Lore_Cloudrest.md) Faculty of Chirurgeons claimed to have walked with the Hollow-Faced Men of Nohotogrha for three years.

## Nonungalo
[Nonungalo](Lore_Nonungalo.md) ([Ayleidoon](Lore_Ayleidoon.md): *"place where few have lived"*) is an [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) [ruin](Lore_Ayleid_Ruins.md) located in the [Imperial Reserve](Lore_Imperial_Reserve.md) of the [Colovian Highlands](Lore_Colovian_Highlands.md), between [Fort Ontus](Lore_Fort_Ontus.md) and Fort Dirich, northwest of [Skingrad](Lore_Skingrad.md) and southwest of [Chorrol](Lore_Chorrol.md). One of the subsections of the complex was known as the **Halls of Nonungalo**. A significant number of [Motherwort](Lore_Motherwort.md) plants can be found nearby the ruined complex.

## Noota Nara
[Noota Nara](Lore_Noota_Nara.md) is a village in [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md), and the original home of the [Argonian](Lore_Argonian.md) Dreekius. At some point prior to [2E 864](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_864), it was attacked by a [dragon](Lore_Dragon.md) who burned the walls to the ground. By heating their spear-tips in the dragonfire, the Argonian villagers were able to harness the fire's enchantment and pierce the dragon. The dragon's head was later brought to the island of [Stros M'Kai](Lore_Stros_M%27Kai.md) by Dreekius, and mounted above a mantel in the Draggin Tale Inn in [Port Hunding](Lore_Port_Hunding.md).

## Noormoc
[Noormoc](Lore_Noormoc.md) is a location on mainland [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md), known as the home of the "Red Wives of [Dagon](Lore_Mehrunes_Dagon.md)", who paid well for the mechanical wonders of the [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md) —offering performative "[belly-magic](Lore_Sex.md)" as their form of [currency](Lore_Currency.md).

## Norg-Tzel
[Norg-Tzel](Lore_Norg-Tzel.md) (meaning "Forbidden Place" in [Jel](Lore_Jel.md)) is a small island off the coast of the region of [Murkmire](Lore_Murkmire.md), being considered a part of the province of [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md). Norg-Tzel is known as the Forbidden Place for a reason, as it served as the prison of the mythical Golden Skull of Beela-Kaar until it was taken by the [Cyrodilic Collections](Lore_Cyrodilic_Collections.md).

## Normar Heights
[Normar Heights](Lore_Normar_Heights.md) is a settlement found in the province of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md), being found southwest of the city-state of [Northpoint](Lore_Northpoint.md).

## North Keep
[North Keep](Lore_North_Keep.md) was a village located on the road between [Granitehall](Lore_Granitehall.md) to the north and [Falkreath](Lore_Falkreath.md) to the south.

During the [Imperial Simulacrum](Lore_Imperial_Simulacrum.md) in the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), the town of North Keep was an active settlement, being ruled by Lord Alan. It had a rivalry with [Neugrad Watch](Lore_Neugrad_Watch.md) and [Black Moor](Lore_Black_Moor.md). It was neighbored by [Oakwood](Lore_Oakwood.md) to the east.

## Northmoor
[Northmoor](Lore_Northmoor.md) is a region on the western coast of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md) in the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md) region. Northmoor lies on the [Eltheric Ocean](Lore_Eltheric_Ocean.md) and only a small portion of it is not part of the Iliac Bay. The region is heavily forested and geographically, it is located in [Glenumbra](Lore_Glenumbra.md). [Caecilly Island](Lore_Caecilly_Island.md) was located somewhere off its coast before it disappeared.<sup>[[Note 1]](#intnote_Island)</sup>

## Northpoint
[Northpoint](Lore_Northpoint.md) (also spelled as **North Point**) is one of the nine historical [Breton kingdoms](Lore_Kingdoms_of_High_Rock.md) in the province of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md), located on the northeast point of [Rivenspire](Lore_Rivenspire.md). Northpoint is an important trading center along the northwest trading route on the [Eltheric Ocean](Lore_Eltheric_Ocean.md), as well as the seat of power for [House Dorell](Lore_House_Dorell.md), one of the three major houses of Rivenspire. Their power extends across northern Rivenspire, including farmland around the city and beyond the sea. As of [3E 432](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_432), Northpoint was one of five major kingdoms in High Rock.

## Northwind Mine
[Northwind Mine](Lore_Northwind_Mine.md) is an ancient [iron](Lore_Iron.md) mine found in [the Rift](Lore_The_Rift.md) northwest of [Shor's Stone](Lore_Shor%27s_Stone.md), high up in the mountains that form the border with [Eastmarch](Lore_Eastmarch.md). It tunnels into a mountaintop known as **Northwind Summit**.

During the [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md), the ancient [Nords](Lore_Nord.md) erected a [Word Wall](Lore_Word_Walls.md) at the top of Northwind Summit, inscribed in the [dragon language](Lore_Dragon_Language.md).

The iron mine at Northwind has been in existence since at least the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), during which time it was worked by a reclusive family of Nord miners who built a significant settlement at the site. They worked the mine for generations, and sometimes didn't descend for supplies for months on end.

This isolation proved disastrous in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), when a coalition of [Reachman](Lore_Reachman.md) clans invaded the Rift and took control of the mine. The locals initially thought nothing of the disappearance of the miners, and it wasn't until nearby Shor's Stone was attacked by the clans that the Reachmen presence was discovered. After the sacking of [Fallowstone Hall](Lore_Fallowstone_Hall.md), a [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) member of the [Ebonheart Pact](Lore_Ebonheart_Pact.md) and ally of the [Companions](Lore_Companions.md) named Tovisa decided to investigate with the help of the [Vestige](Lore_The_Vestige.md). They discovered that the mine was occupied by the [Stonetalon Clan](Lore_Stonetalon_Clan.md), who were performing human sacrifices to establish a [hagraven](Lore_Hagraven.md) coven in the mine. The Stonetalons were successfully driven off and the hagravens killed, although Tovisa was captured and ritually blinded in the process.

By the [Fourth Era](Lore_Fourth_Era.md), a [mammoth](Lore_Mammoth.md) -hunting camp had been established at the summit. Both the mine and the camp had become abandoned by [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201) and were guarded by skeletal undead. With the return of [Alduin](Lore_Alduin.md) that year, a [dragon](Lore_Dragon.md) began to use the summit as its lair, but was eventually killed when a bounty was placed on its head.

## Norvulk Ruins
The [Norvulk Hills](Lore_Norvulk_Hills.md) is a settlement found on the rolling hills of [Stormhaven](Lore_Stormhaven.md), in the province of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md). It is built from the ruins of the same name, which was named after Norvulk Tome-Hoarder, an eccentric wizard from the [Second Empire](Lore_Second_Empire.md).

## Noweyr
[Noweyr](Lore_Noweyr.md) (also known as the **Realm of Noweyr**) is a plane of [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md). A tale intertwining Noweyr and the thief- [god](Lore_Gods.md) [Rajhin](Lore_Rajhin.md) exists. It is said that Rajhin pilfered enchanted purple horses and ponies from somewhere within the realms of [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md). Whenever inquired about the exact origin of these magical creatures, his worshippers were known to playfully respond with a cryptic and whimsical answer, saying, "Noweyr!".