# People W

[Overview](Lore_People.md) | [A](Lore_People_A.md) [B](Lore_People_B.md) [C](Lore_People_C.md) [D](Lore_People_D.md) [E](Lore_People_E.md) [F](Lore_People_F.md) [G](Lore_People_G.md) [H](Lore_People_H.md) [I](Lore_People_I.md) [J](Lore_People_J.md) [K](Lore_People_K.md) [L](Lore_People_L.md) [M](Lore_People_M.md) [N](Lore_People_N.md) [O](Lore_People_O.md) [P](Lore_People_P.md) [Q](Lore_People_Q.md) [R](Lore_People_R.md) [S](Lore_People_S.md) [T](Lore_People_T.md) [U](Lore_People_U.md) [V](Lore_People_V.md) W [X](Lore_People_X.md) [Y](Lore_People_Y.md) [Z](Lore_People_Z.md)
---

#### Waughin Jarth (fl. 3E 4th century)
[Waughin Jarth](Lore_Waughin_Jarth.md) was a well-known and celebrated author from the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md) that penned many books and stories, such as *[The Wolf Queen](Lore_The_Wolf_Queen.md)*, *[A Dance in Fire](Lore_A_Dance_in_Fire.md)*, and *[Feyfolken](Lore_Feyfolken.md)*. Ever since he was young, Waughin Jarth has had a passion for writing and has done it purely for fun. Despite the subjects of some of his books, he had no interest in writing about high and mighty figures and liked to explore the triumphs and tribulations of the common folk.

#### Battlemage Welloc (fl. 3E 4th century)
[Welloc](Lore_Welloc.md) was a wizard active during the fourth century of the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md). He was most likely the Archmagister of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) before being appointed by Empress [Morihatha](Lore_Morihatha.md) to the rarely-filled but powerful position of the [Imperial Battlemage of Tamriel](Lore_Imperial_Battlemage_of_Tamriel.md). He was the second Imperial Battlemage since the days of Tiber Septim.

Between late 3E 399 and 3E 426, an [illusionist](Lore_Illusion.md) named Berevar Bero was known to have publicly criticized Welloc, saying that he was "an accomplished diplomat" but not "a powerful student of the School of [Destruction](Lore_Destruction.md)". Others vociferously defended Welloc and cited how on one occasion he cast Vampiric Cloud on the rebel army of [Blackrose](Lore_Blackrose.md), thereby sapping their strength and skill and giving it to their opponents.

#### Weltan (fl. mid 2E)
[Weltan](Lore_Weltan.md) was a [Redguard](Lore_Redguard.md) poet and historian from the mid- [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md).<sup>[[Note 1]](#intnote_Time)</sup> As a native of [Sentinel](Lore_Sentinel.md), much of his work pertains to his home, the [Alik'r Desert](Lore_Alik%27r_Desert.md), and his affection for it. Weltan wrote in the original Redguard language of [Yoku](Lore_Yoku.md) but is also fluent in Tamrielic. He was friends with another author named Enric Milres who wrote about his experience with him and his first time in the Alik'r Desert in the book, *The Alik'r*. In his works, which includes the *[Epode of the Ansei Wards](Lore_Epode_of_the_Ansei_Wards.md)* and *[On the Immortality of Dust](Lore_On_the_Immortality_of_Dust.md)*, he is credited as **Weltan of Sentinel**.

#### Wenengrus Monhona (fl. Second or Third Era)
[Wenengrus Monhona](Lore_Wenengrus_Monhona.md), also known as **Wenegrus Monhana**, was a renowned scholar of the [Nedes](Lore_Nedes.md) and [Ayleids](Lore_Ayleids.md) and translator. They are the author of *[The Amulet of Kings](Lore_The_Amulet_of_Kings.md)*, a study examining the [legendary relic itself](Lore_Amulet_of_Kings.md), the Covenant between [Saint](Lore_Imperial_Saints.md) [Alessia](Lore_Alessia.md) and [Akatosh](Lore_Akatosh.md), and the downfall of the [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) civilization. Monhona also helped translate fragments of the mysterious Tract of Merid-Nunda, an early [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md) manuscript detailing the origin myth of [Meridia](Lore_Meridia.md) alongside [Herminia Cinna](Lore_Herminia_Cinna.md). Theatrical retellings of the story of the Amulet of Kings attributed to Wenengrus Monhona were performed in the courts of various rulers across different periods of time.

#### Madam Whim (fl. First Era onwards)
[Madam Whim](Lore_Madam_Whim.md) was a [Dark Seducer](Lore_Dark_Seducer.md) information broker who was operating from her establishment in [Fargrave](Lore_Fargrave.md) from at least the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md), and was considered a fixture of the extra-planar city. She once served a [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Prince.md), but broke ties them a long time ago, and claimed have used many different names and appearances over the centuries.

During [Mehrunes Dagon](Lore_Mehrunes_Dagon.md) and the [Waking Flame](Lore_Order_of_the_Waking_Flame.md)'s assault on [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) and Fargrave in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), Whim provided her services to [the Vestige](Lore_The_Vestige.md) and their allies.

#### Windsorrow
[Windsorrow](Lore_Windsorrow.md) is a mournful [wind spirit](Lore_Nature_Spirit.md) who inhabited and haunted the area surrounding the tower of [Tor Draioch](Lore_Tor_Draioch.md) on [High Isle](Lore_High_Isle.md). Although some considered the existence of such a spirit nothing more than myth, many locals claimed to have seen [motes](Lore_Mote.md) of light that blink in and out of sight. They believed that this phenomena was a remnant of the spirit. It was indeed true that the spirit named Windsorrow existed.

#### Wonshala Keriayn (?b - ?d)
[Wonshala Keriayn](Lore_Wonshala_Keriayn.md) (also known as **Vonshala**) is a feared [Daedra](Lore_Daedra.md)<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_nb1)</sup> who has often filled high-ranking positions to the [Daedric Princes](Lore_Daedric_Princes.md) she has served, notably [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md) and later [Mehrunes Dagon](Lore_Mehrunes_Dagon.md), joined by her two comrades, [Methats](Lore_Methats.md) and [Sumeer Jabran](Lore_Sumeer_Jabran.md). She solidified her role in Oblivion as the commander of [Spider Daedra](Lore_Spider_Daedra.md). Perthan Vorn and Perthan Serni are both known to serve her. She has been known to take the form of a beautiful woman, wearing a gown made of flowing water.

#### Lord Woodborne (?b - 3E 405)
[Lord Woodborne](Lore_Woodborne.md) was a minor noble of [Wayrest](Lore_Wayrest_(kingdom).md) in the early [Fifth Century of the Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md#Fifth_Century), and betrothed to [Princess Elysana](Lore_Elysana.md), daughter of [King Eadwyre](Lore_Eadwyre.md).

At some point around the year [3E 400](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_400), the [Totem of Tiber Septim](Lore_Totem_of_Tiber_Septim.md) was found in the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md) region. Legends held that this artifact—unseen since [the end of the Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_896) —allowed its bearer to control the equally-legendary [Numidium](Lore_Numidium.md), a colossal brass golem of [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md) make said to have been used by [Tiber Septim](Lore_Tiber_Septim.md) to conquer all of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). It is unclear who found the Totem, but by [3E 403](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_403) it had made its way into Lord Woodborne's hands.

3E 403 also saw the conclusion of the [War of Betony](Lore_War_of_Betony.md), a petty land squabble between the kingdoms of [Daggerfall](Lore_Daggerfall_(kingdom).md) and [Sentinel](Lore_Sentinel_(kingdom).md) that had escalated into an all-out war. On the eve of what was to be the decisive battle at [Cryngaine Field](Lore_Cryngaine_Field.md), a delegation from Wayrest—which included Woodborne—visited the Daggerfall contingent to speak with Daggerfall's King [Lysandus](Lore_Lysandus.md). During the meeting, Lord Woodborne crept up behind Lysandus and stabbed him. The king died quickly, and his son [Gothryd](Lore_Gothryd.md) was crowned the new king shortly before leading his troops to victory.

In [3E 405](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_405), Emperor [Uriel Septim VII](Lore_Uriel_Septim_VII.md) sent an [agent](Lore_The_Agent.md) of the [Blades](Lore_Blades.md) to the Iliac Bay to investigate the death of King Lysandus. Over time, the trail eventually led to [Woodborne Hall](Lore_Woodborne_Hall.md) in northwestern Wayrest, where the Agent discovered evidence that Woodborne was planning to seize the throne of Wayrest—and presumably use the power of Numidium to conquer the surrounding lands. Lord Woodborne was eventually cornered and slain by the Agent, and with his dying breath revealed his co-conspirator in this sordid affair to be none other than King Gothryd.

#### High Necromancer Wormblood (fl. 2E 582)
[Wormblood](Lore_Wormblood.md) was a powerful [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md) [necromancer](Lore_Necromancy.md) and nephew of [Mannimarco](Lore_Mannimarco.md) who led the [Worm Cult](Lore_Worm_Cult.md) following the demise of his uncle during the [Planemeld](Lore_Planemeld.md).

#### Old Wunagh (fl. 2E 536)
**Old** [Wunagh](Lore_Wunagh.md) was one of the [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md) sorcerer advisors of [Emperor](Lore_Tamrielic_Emperors.md) [Durcorach](Lore_Durcorach.md) the [Black Drake](Lore_Blackdrake_Clan.md), who held a prominent position of trust and influence in the emperor's court in the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md). He was possibly a member of the [Tagh Droiloch](Lore_Tagh_Droiloch.md).

#### Wuunding (fl. before 2E 582)
[Wuunding](Lore_Wuunding.md) (also spelled as **Wuundig**) was a legendary hero held in high regard by the [Nords](Lore_Nord.md) of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). Two legends of Wuunding's deeds were known and recorded by [Vothel Bethalas](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Vothel_Bethalas) in *[Wuunding and Tumult](Lore_Wuunding_and_Tumult.md)*. According to the author, every Nordic town had another legend about him, and every Nord they met claimed that they were all true.

#### King Wulfharth (?b - [1E 533](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_533))
[High King Wulfharth](Lore_Wulfharth.md) or **Wulfrich** (also known as **Ysmir, Dragon of the North, Shor's Tongue, Kyne's Son, the Ash-King, the Breath of Kyne**, the **Storm of Kyne**, the **Grey Wind**, the **Kingmaker**, **Spirit Wulfharth**, **Ra'Wulfharth**, **Lord of Solitude**, the **Raised King**, and **the [Underking](Lore_Underking.md)**) was an [Atmora](Lore_Atmora.md) -born High King of ancient [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) who came to power after the death of [Hoag Merkiller](Lore_Hoag_Merkiller.md) at [Glenumbra Moors](Lore_Battle_of_Glenumbra_Moors.md). He submitted Skyrim to a fiery reinstatement of the traditional Nordic pantheon, destroying [Alessian](Lore_Alessian_Order.md) temples and forcing the remnants of its priesthood to seek refuge in the Heartland. A plaque in [Windhelm](Lore_Windhelm.md) is dedicated to Wulfharth, crediting him with the victory over the [Direnni](Lore_Clan_Direnni.md) and the purging of the Alessian heresy from Skyrim.

Legends claim that an [evil god](Lore_Orkey.md) once made him (and all of Skyrim) into children, and when Wulfharth found a way to cure his people, he inadvertently made himself extremely old and died (for the first time). He led the invasion of [Resdayn](Lore_Resdayn.md) (modern-day Morrowind) and fought at the [Battle of Red Mountain](Lore_Battle_of_Red_Mountain.md), where he was killed again.

During the Interregnum, he was revived yet again by either Almalexia or the Skald-King [Jorunn](Lore_Jorunn.md) to fight against the Akaviri invaders of Skyrim and Morrowind. Though his official story ends here, *[The Arcturian Heresy](Lore_The_Arcturian_Heresy.md)* claims that Wulfharth reincarnated as the Ash-King following this battle, an undead warrior bent on destroying the [Mer](Lore_Mer.md) and ruling Tamriel.

#### Baron Wylon Montclair (?b - 2E 582)
[Wylon Montclair](Lore_Wylon_Montclair.md) was a [Breton](Lore_Breton.md) nobleman who reigned as the thirty-ninth Baron of [House Montclair](Lore_House_Montclair.md) during the sixth century of the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). Following [Ranser's War](Lore_Ranser%27s_War.md), Wylon served alongside the leaders of [Houses Dorell](Lore_House_Dorell.md) and [Tamrith](Lore_House_Tamrith.md) as a member of the triumvirate Council of the North, which was formed to govern [Rivenspire](Lore_Rivenspire.md) until the selection of a new King of [Shornhelm](Lore_Shornhelm.md).

After Wylon's wife, Baroness Leila Montclair, became seriously ill in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), the Montclairs, his court magician Reezal-Jul, and Wylon's close friend, the [vampire](Lore_Vampire.md) Count [Verandis Ravenwatch](Lore_Verandis_Ravenwatch.md), journeyed to the [Doomcrag](Lore_Doomcrag.md) to retrieve the relic known as the Lightless Remnant in hopes of healing Leila. Once they reached the top of the Doomcrag, the Montclairs began performing a ritual on the Lightless Remnant, which, unbeknownst to everyone but Reezal-Jul, was corrupted. When Verandis touched the Lightless Remnant to assist the Montclairs in their ritual, this further corrupted it, turning Wylon and his daughter Lleraya into vampires, while Leila was transformed into a [bloodfiend](Lore_Bloodfiend.md). Leila then begged Verandis to kill her before she became a completely mindless bloodfiend, and Verandis killed her in an act of mercy, enraging Wylon.

After Leila's death, Wylon and House Montclair initiated a civil war in Rivenspire in an attempt to conquer the region. However, the combined forces of Houses Dorell, Tamrith, and [Ravenwatch](Lore_House_Ravenwatch.md) defeated House Montclair, and he was killed at the Doomcrag.