# Places T

[Overview](Lore_Places.md) | [A](Lore_Places_A.md) [B](Lore_Places_B.md) [C](Lore_Places_C.md) [D](Lore_Places_D.md) [E](Lore_Places_E.md) [F](Lore_Places_F.md) [G](Lore_Places_G.md) [H](Lore_Places_H.md) [I](Lore_Places_I.md) [J](Lore_Places_J.md) [K](Lore_Places_K.md) [L](Lore_Places_L.md) [M](Lore_Places_M.md) [N](Lore_Places_N.md) [O](Lore_Places_O.md) [P](Lore_Places_P.md) [Q](Lore_Places_Q.md) [R](Lore_Places_R.md) [S](Lore_Places_S.md) T [U](Lore_Places_U.md) [V](Lore_Places_V.md) [W](Lore_Places_W.md) [X](Lore_Places_X.md) [Y](Lore_Places_Y.md) [Z](Lore_Places_Z.md) | [Maps](Lore_Maps.md)
---

## Tamarilyn Point
[Tamarilyn Point](Lore_Tamarilyn_Point.md) (also spelled as **Tamarilyne Point**) is a region found on the southwest tip of the [County of Menevia](Lore_Menevia_(county).md), in the province of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md). The [Bretons](Lore_Breton.md) of Tamarilyn had once worshipped the old goddess of flowers, [Druagaa](Lore_Druagaa.md), but while veneration has long since been dead, the festival held on [Gardtide](Lore_Gardtide.md) (on the 1st of [Rain's Hand](Lore_Rain%27s_Hand.md)) continues to honor her and the old cult of flowers. It has always been a great success. The region is the home of the Tamarilyn Coven of witches, who often congregate west of Whiteflower Garden and Lysandus' Tomb.

## Tamburkar
[Tamburkar](Lore_Tamburkar.md) was a forest featured in the fictional novel series [The Adventures of Eslaf Erol](Lore_The_Adventures_of_Eslaf_Erol.md). It was located in the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), outside the kingdom of [Erolgard](Lore_Erolgard.md) and near [Mount Jensen](Lore_Mount_Jensen.md) and the village of [Hoarbeld](Lore_Hoarbeld.md). Eslaf Erol committed his first act of thievery here.

## Tamriel
[Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) ([/ˈ tˈamɹi-ˈɛl/](https://www.wikipedia.org/wiki/Help:IPA/English) ***tamri** -EL* Link ⏵), also known as the **Arena**, is one of the main continents of the planet [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md). This land is a great melting pot of [cultures](Lore_Factions.md) and [races](Lore_Races.md); being home to at least a dozen races, with dozens more having died out or changed in ages gone by. The continent is divided into nine [provinces](#Provinces), which have on occasion been united under the rule of the [Empire](Lore_Empire.md). The name semantically denotes both the landmass at large and a political entity, with Tamriel being identified as a kingdom and an empire. On [Septim Era](Lore_Third_Era.md) maps, the continent is identified as the **[Empire of Tamriel](Lore_Empire_of_Tamriel.md)** or simply **The Empire**. Non-independent realms of the Empire belong to an overarching political entity called Tamriel.

"Tamriel" means **Dawn's Beauty** in [Elvish](Lore_Elvish.md). The [Mythic Dawn](Lore_Mythic_Dawn.md) believed that Tamriel is misnomer created by "deluded mortals" and that "Dawn's Beauty" is the most accurate name of the Land.<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_nb1)</sup> Other cultures have had their own stylizations of the name: the [Ayleids](Lore_Ayleids.md) name it "Tamri-El", the [Marukhati](Lore_Marukh.md) call it "Tam! Rugh!", and the [Dragons](Lore_Dragon_Language.md) entitled it "Taazokaan".

## Taneth
[Taneth](Lore_Taneth.md) is one of the eight major cities in the province of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), situated on the coastal highlands of southern Hammerfell. Taneth is a bustling and important port city occupied by the [Forebears](Lore_Forebears.md), the modern-day remnant of the [Ra Gada](Lore_Ra_Gada.md). Taneth is the seat of power for the eponymous polity, the **Kingdom of Taneth**.

## Tang Mo
[Tang Mo](Lore_Tang_Mo_(place).md) (meaning the **Thousand Monkey Isles**) is a nation of [Akavir](Lore_Akavir.md). It is inhabited by many breeds of monkey-folk, collectively known as the [Tang Mo](Lore_Tang_Mo_(race).md). The monkey-folk are kind, brave and simple, but can raise armies when they must, as all other Akaviri nations have tried to enslave them at one point. Every year, the [demons](Lore_Kamal_(race).md) of [Kamal](Lore_Kamal_(place).md) thaw out after winter and attempt to invade Tang Mo, but the monkey-folk always successfully repel them. They are enemies of the [snake-folk](Lore_Tsaesci_(race).md) of [Tsaesci](Lore_Tsaesci_(place).md), but have become allies of their once-bitter enemies, the [tiger-folk](Lore_Ka_Po%27_Tun_(race).md) of [Ka Po' Tun](Lore_Ka_Po%27_Tun_(place).md).

## Tanzelwil
[Tanzelwil](Lore_Tanzelwil.md) is a large ruin on the coastal highlands of [Auridon](Lore_Auridon.md), the second-largest island in the province of the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md). The [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md) consider the ruins one of their most sacred sites on the island as it serves as a temple for the [Ancients](Lore_Ancients.md); ancestors to the island's people and a mausoleum to ancient kinlords. New monarchs of the province will travel to Tanzelwil's Ancestral Chamber and quietly commune with the dead to retrieve their blessings. The ruins are built in a large, forested valley that splits [Iluvamir](Lore_Iluvamir.md) from the rest of the island. It extends west over a plateau that looms over the [Auridon Strait](Lore_Auridon_Strait.md).

## Tarak Shan
[Tarak Shan](Lore_Tarak_Shan.md) is a place of the battle, in which [soldier Attrebus](Lore_Attrebus_(soldier).md) took part. He was wounded during the storming of Tarak Shan at some point between [2E 857](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_857) and [2E 861](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_861).<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-Attrebus-1)</sup>

## Tarlain Heights
The [Tarlain Heights](Lore_Tarlain_Heights.md) is a region in the [Grahtwood](Lore_Grahtwood.md) region of [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md). It is the region's least populated area, with its main population center being the town of Redfur Trading Post, located near the crossroad towards [Marbruk](Lore_Marbruk.md) in [Greenshade](Lore_Greenshade.md) and the [Xylo River Basin](Lore_Xylo_River_Basin.md) in [Malabal Tor](Lore_Malabal_Tor.md). However, in the past, Tarlain Heights contained significant settlements, namely [Gil-Var-Delle](Lore_Gil-Var-Delle.md), one of the province's [graht-oak](Lore_Graht-oak.md) cities and [Falinesti](Lore_Falinesti.md) during the winter season. Some of Grahtwood's [Wood Orc](Lore_Wood_Orcs.md) clans historically live in the region, such as the Barkbite Clan of [Reman's Bluff](Lore_Reman%27s_Bluff.md) and the Orcs of [Goldfolly](Lore_Goldfolly.md).

## Tear
[Tear](Lore_Tear.md) (also known as **Dres**) is one of the eight major cities on mainland [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). Tear is the capital of the Great [House Dres](Lore_House_Dres.md), whose sphere of influence revolves around an agrarian agricultural society, building its vast fortune from the export of [saltrice](Lore_Saltrice.md) and its grip on the [slavery](Lore_Slavery.md) industry. Tear is also known as the **Jewel of the East** and it is the most open to trade and commerce compared to other cities on the mainland. But even so, strange happenings occur in the night and few people ever complain about it.

## Tel Aruhn
[Tel Aruhn](Lore_Tel_Aruhn.md) was an island-town found on the District of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md), in the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). It was northwest of [Sadrith Mora](Lore_Sadrith_Mora.md), amidst the rocky islands on [Azura's Coast](Lore_Azura%27s_Coast.md), specifically in [Zafirbel Bay](Lore_Zafirbel_Bay.md). For the longest time, it was the home of the Archmagister of [House Telvanni](Lore_House_Telvanni.md) on Vvardenfell, High Lord Magus [Gothren](Lore_Gothren.md). But it was widely-known for the Festival Slave Market, the largest slave market on the island-district. The island of [Vounoura](Lore_Vounoura.md) is roughly less than a month away from Tel Aruhn.

## Tel Branora
[Tel Branora](Lore_Tel_Branora.md) was perhaps the southernmost town in [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md), on an island far to the southeast. It was the wizard tower of [Mistress Therana](Lore_Therana.md), possibly the most eccentric (some say irrational) of the [Telvanni](Lore_House_Telvanni.md) Mage Lords, who held it since at least the sixth century of the Second Era. Because Therana was certainly eccentric, perhaps unbalanced, the Telvanni code would generally have seen her disposed of, unless she was capable of adequately defending herself. However, she obviously held great importance to the Council, or she would not have existed as a Master.

## Tel Fyr
[Tel Fyr](Lore_Tel_Fyr.md) was a remote [Telvanni](Lore_House_Telvanni.md) Tower, located directly south of [Tel Aruhn](Lore_Tel_Aruhn.md) and southwest of [Sadrith Mora](Lore_Sadrith_Mora.md), on an island just off the mainland. Unlike most of the other Telvanni towers on [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md), most of Tel Fyr was built into a large hill, as opposed to being a free-standing organic growth. It has a dock outside the tower to receive boats and visitors.

Its main resident, [Divayth Fyr](Lore_Divayth_Fyr.md), was proof of the Telvanni maxim that rank is insignificant next to the power to do whatever one desires. Divayth was not generally addressed as "Lord Fyr" and was not a member of the Council (despite invitation), but he was nevertheless one of the most significant and powerful of the Telvanni Lords. The tower itself was gifted to Fyr by the Telvanni council.

Around [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), as Divayth was expanding his tower of Tel Fyr into the [Abanabi Caves](Lore_Abanabi_Caves.md), a gateway to a part of [Sotha Sil](Lore_Sotha_Sil.md)'s [Clockwork City](Lore_Clockwork_City.md), known as the Halls of Fabrication, was discovered. Divayth Fyr and a group of Telvanni mages tried to make their way to the gate but were stopped by the clockwork god's [fabricants](Lore_Fabricants.md). Divayth Fyr therefore enlisted the [Undaunted](Lore_Undaunted.md) to destroy the fabricants and let him explore the Clockwork City. The plan succeeded, and the gate was likely sealed afterwards.

In the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), Divayth Fyr had turned his back on most of the affairs of men. He converted most of the Abanabi Caves into the [Corprusarium](Lore_Corprusarium.md), a place where he experimented with the [Corprus](Lore_Corprus.md) Disease. Whether the Corprusarium was a compassionate endeavor or simply a good means of gaining experimental subjects, it still was a place of value to all factions and segments of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md) society who wanted an alternative to simply killing family or companions who contracted the dreaded disease.

## Tel Mithryn
[Tel Mithryn](Lore_Tel_Mithryn.md) is a settlement on the banks of the [Iggnir River](Lore_Iggnir_River.md) in southeastern [Solstheim](Lore_Solstheim.md), made primarily out of four large fungi. It was planted by Master [Neloth](Lore_Neloth.md) of [House Telvanni](Lore_House_Telvanni.md) from cuttings of fungi in [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md), presumably before [4E 5](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_5). The Nordic burial ground of Himmelhost Barrow was once found at the site of the settlement, but like many of the ruins was later buried by the ash from the eruption of Red Mountain. Relations between Tel Mithryn and the nearby [Redoran](Lore_House_Redoran.md) town of [Raven Rock](Lore_Raven_Rock.md) have been cordial; the two settlements have been content to ignore each other.

Circa [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201), Tel Mithryn was plagued by a string of bad luck, with the death of its steward, withering of its fungi and frequent [Ash Spawn](Lore_Ash_Spawn.md) and [Dragon](Lore_Dragon.md) attacks. It was later discovered to be the work of [Ildari Sarothril](Lore_Ildari_Sarothril.md), who was subsequently killed. A priest of [Dagoth Ur](Lore_Dagoth_Ur.md) named Erden Relvel also chose the graveyard at Tel Mithryn as the site of his fated battle against the champion of the [Tribunal](Lore_Tribunal.md). Following a string of [Ash Zombie](Lore_Ash_Zombie.md) attacks, the [Last Dragonborn](Lore_Last_Dragonborn.md) followed Erden's summons and defeated him, ending the threat.

## Tel Mora
[Tel Mora](Lore_Tel_Mora.md) ([Dark Elvish](Lore_Dark_Elvish.md) for *"Tower Forest"*) was the northernmost of the [Telvanni](Lore_House_Telvanni.md) -held islands. It was constructed in the middle [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md) by [Aldmeri](Lore_Aldmer.md) explorers. It was the tower of the Telvanni Councilor [Mistress Dratha](Lore_Dratha.md), one of the oldest of the Telvanni wizard lords.

Tel Mora was typical of a wizard tower in that it had a reasonable community living in smaller mushroom dwellings around the base of the tower. The construction of Tel Mora was also interesting, since the tower itself was set between two islands with a network of walkways over the water.

Around [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), Mistress Dratha fell mortally ill as a part of a plot by the Telvanni noble Savarak Fels to take her place as ruler of [Vos](Lore_Vos.md). The plot was foiled by the [Vestige](Lore_The_Vestige.md), and Dratha was restored to good health. The near-death experience caused Dratha to make a deal with a servant of [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md), Xykenaz, to achieve immortality. Although the deal made her immune to aging, she was prophesized by Xykenaz to one day be killed by a mortal man.

By the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), all of the residents of Tel Mora had to be female to prevent the prophecy from being fulfilled. Males were allowed to shop in the town and get service there, but had to stay well clear of the tower itself. There was regular sea transport to nearby [Vos](Lore_Vos.md), as well as [Dagon Fel](Lore_Dagon_Fel.md), [Tel Aruhn](Lore_Tel_Aruhn.md), and [Sadrith Mora](Lore_Sadrith_Mora.md). Females, however, found warm welcome in Tel Mora and plenty of conversation at The Covenant, the local social center. Females could also avail the alchemy shop in the lower tower, which was considered perhaps the best alchemical supply shop in [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md), supporting the traditional idea of women's natural propensity for healing and herbal magic.

Dratha shared the Telvanni penchant for 'eccentricity'; in this case manifesting in an acute mistrust and hatred of males of any species, due to the prophecy concerning her death. While male Telvanni of high rank could talk to her safely and do chores, she was quite hostile toward male outsiders.

## Tel Vos
[Tel Vos](Lore_Tel_Vos.md) was the home of the youngest of the [Telvanni](Lore_House_Telvanni.md) Mage Lords, [Master Aryon](Lore_Aryon.md), in [3E 427](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_427). The tower was located in the north-central [Grazelands](Lore_Grazelands.md) of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md), and Master Aryon was the only Councilman at the time whose Tel was not on an island. Perhaps as a sign of his relative youth and openness to new ways, Master Aryon's tower was quite unique. While Tel Vos was worth a visit out of pure architectural interest, it also had a [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md) museum, a small but excellent library, and a dungeon. Tel Vos was the primary regional center for the Grazelands, because it extended Telvanni influence beyond traditional reaches. The lack of services in [Vos](Lore_Vos.md) made what's available in Tel Vos all the more important.

## Telepe
[Telepe](Lore_Telepe.md) is a small [Ayleid ruin](Lore_Ayleid_Ruins.md) found in the Niben Forest of [Blackwood](Lore_Blackwood.md), just northwest of the [Cyrodilic](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) city of [Leyawiin](Lore_Leyawiin.md).

## Tempest Island
[Tempest Island](Lore_Tempest_Island.md), also known as the **Island of Storms**, is one of several treacherous islands in the [Strid](Lore_Strid_River.md) estuary located off the coast of [Malabal Tor](Lore_Malabal_Tor.md) in northwestern [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md). It is infamous for the unnatural storms that originate there. Surrounded by sand bars and shifting channels and covered in dense jungle, the island has never been fully explored by any civilized authority. A network of natural caves run beneath the island, offering shelter from the unpredictable weather above.

The island was once colonized by the [Ayleids](Lore_Ayleid.md), whose white limestone ruins cover the landscape. It has long served as a haven for pirates, raiders and fugitives. The island is thought to have been the source of multiple phenomena, such as the Flood of the Era and the [Lamia](Lore_Lamia.md) Invasion of [2E 435](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_435), both of which were preceded by fierce storms on the island. These events attracted the attention of academics such as [Angalmo](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Angalmo), but the island's extreme weather limited research.

In [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), a [Maormer](Lore_Maormer.md) invasion force began to assemble on Tempest Island to perform a mysterious ritual, harnessing powerful lightning magic in preparation for a planned takeover of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). The [Aldmeri Dominion](Lore_Aldmeri_Dominion.md) had originally refused to man a garrison on the island in order to focus on the ongoing [Alliance War](Lore_Alliance_War.md), but were eventually alerted of the threat. A group of [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md) soldiers led by Battlereeve Alduril were dispatched to the island to drive off the invaders, but progress was immediately blocked by a horde of lamias on the beach. The [Undaunted](Lore_Undaunted.md) arrived on the island soon afterwards and aided Alduril by fighting through the Maormer camps, destroying their Conduit Stones and killing their leader, Stormreeve Neidir. This dispelled the storm the Maormer had summoned.

## Temple of Agamanus
The [Temple of Agamanus](Lore_Temple_of_Agamanus.md) is a [Khajiiti](Lore_Khajiit.md) ruin located south of [Corinthe](Lore_Corinthe.md), in the province of [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md). It is dedicated to the eponymous [Sphinx](Lore_Sphinx.md) of [Gazia](Lore_Gazia.md), [Agamanus](Lore_Agamanus.md), and prior to its abandonment, the temple greeted pilgrims on their journey.

## Temple of Miraak
The [Temple of Miraak](Lore_Temple_of_Miraak.md) is a structure located in the center of the island of [Solstheim](Lore_Solstheim.md). It served as the stronghold of [Miraak](Lore_Miraak.md) in ancient times, before it was destroyed by the [Dragon Cult](Lore_Dragon_Cult.md). Renovations began on the ruins in [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201) when Miraak attempted to return to [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md), but were left incomplete with Miraak's defeat.

## Temple of the One
The [Temple of the One](Lore_Temple_of_the_One.md) is the premier religious institution of the [Dragonborn Emperors](Lore_Dragonborn.md#Dragonborn_Emperors) and the overall [Imperial Church](Lore_Imperial_Cult.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), located in the Temple District of the [Cyrodiil City](Lore_Imperial_City.md). The structure itself is dedicated to the ineffable deity of the old [Alessian Order](Lore_Alessian_Order.md) named "[the One](Lore_The_One.md)", also known as [Akatosh](Lore_Akatosh.md) the "Supreme Spirit", though other stories conflate or combine this patron deity with [Shezarr](Lore_Shezarr.md). Since the time of Empress Alessia, the Temple of the One has served as site of ceremony for the lighting of the [Dragonfires](Lore_Dragonfires.md) ritual, which traditionally involves the covenantal bequeathment of the [Amulet of Kings](Lore_Amulet_of_Kings.md).

The Temple's religion is honored throughout all of Tamriel and has a number of different missions throughout the continent, including: the **Brotherhood of the One** and the **Conclave of the One**. The **Archbishopric of the One**, sometimes referred to as a Primate, serves a powerful religious role throughout Cyrodiil City and over all of Tamriel. The Temple houses Cyrodiil's [Communion of Saints](Lore_Communion_of_Saints.md). Additionally, the Tamrielic Empire's city-state Kings and Queens are expected to be active members of the Temple.

## Temple of Two-Moons Dance
The [Temples of Two Moons Dance](Lore_Temple_of_Two-Moons_Dance.md) are places of philosophical study and [martial training](Lore_Claw-Dances.md) that revere the [Riddle'Thar](Lore_Riddle%27Thar.md), the cosmic order deity of the [Khajiit](Lore_Khajiit.md), also known as the Two-Moons Dance. They also worship the [Lunar Lattice](Lore_Lunar_Lattice.md), the movement of the [moons](Lore_Moons.md), known as [Jone](Lore_Jone.md) and [Jode](Lore_Jode.md) to the Khajiit. These temples can be found all over [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md) and are typically the most expansive buildings in the settlements, created from the finest materials for longevity.

## Ten-Maur-Wolk
[Ten-Maur-Wolk](Lore_Ten-Maur-Wolk.md) (formerly known as **Tenmorvuk**) is a [Daedric ruin](Lore_Daedric_Ruins.md) located near the northern river of [Shadowfen](Lore_Shadowfen.md), in the province of [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md). Ten-Maur-Wolk was built by [Dark Elven](Lore_Dunmer.md) dissidents from the [north](Lore_Morrowind.md) as a temple dedicated to [Boethiah](Lore_Boethiah.md) and [Vaermina](Lore_Vaermina.md).<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_Prince)</sup> While the former residents have since disappeared, the site retains an altered version of its name. When the [Third Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md) took over and constructed maps of the province, they gave the site an Imperialized name: **Tenmar Wall**.

## Tenmar Forest
The [Tenmar Forest](Lore_Tenmar_Forest.md), also known as the **Tenmar Jungle**, in southern [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md) is a large region lying between [Torval](Lore_Torval.md), the seat of the [Mane](Lore_Mane.md), and the busy seaport of [Senchal](Lore_Senchal.md). Primarily known for the production and export of [moon sugar](Lore_Moon_Sugar.md), its sugarcane groves are venerated and diligently guarded by the [Khajiit](Lore_Khajiit.md).

The forest is home to two subspecies of Khajiit rarely found elsewhere, the Dagi and Dagi-raht. The Tenmar Forest once contained the ancient Kingdom of Tenmar, one of the original sixteen states of Elsweyr. It was known for its jungle and tree-folk.

Tenmar Senche-Tigers and Tenmar Senche-Leopards are fearsome predators of the Forest, however, the Leopards are also bred by Khajiit for hunting.

## Tethis
[Tethis](Lore_Tethis.md) is a place of origin of Brother Barnabas of Tethis, one of the members of [Brotherhood of Seth](Lore_Brotherhood_of_Seth.md) as of [3E 389](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_389) - [3E 399](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_399).<sup>[[2]](#cite_note-Halfas_Varn-2)</sup>

## Thalmor Embassy
The [Thalmor Embassy](Lore_Thalmor_Embassy.md) is the [Aldmeri Dominion](Lore_Aldmeri_Dominion.md)'s diplomatic mission to [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), located north of [Solitude](Lore_Solitude.md), which serves as the center of [Thalmor](Lore_Thalmor.md) activity in Skyrim.

The embassy is a gated complex. [Elenwen](Lore_Elenwen.md) is the resident ambassador, known for hosting the province's most powerful [men](Lore_Men.md) and [mer](Lore_Mer.md) at lavish ambassadorial parties.

## Thir River‎
The [Thir River](Lore_Thir_River.md) (or *River Thir*) is a large waterway in central [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md), flowing through the regions of [Stonefalls](Lore_Stonefalls.md) and [Deshaan](Lore_Deshaan.md). It travels from the [Inner Sea](Lore_Inner_Sea.md) in the north to the [Padomaic Ocean](Lore_Padomaic_Ocean.md) in the east. Its spring is found between [Lagomere](Lore_Lagomere.md) and [Siltreen](Lore_Siltreen.md) close to [Silnim Dale](Lore_Silnim_Dale.md) in the southeast, it then continues as a stream to Tal'Deic Fortress, where the Thir widens considerably. Flanking the fertile [Deshaan Plain](Lore_Deshaan_Plain.md), it flows out east into the [Padomaic Ocean](Lore_Padomaic_Ocean.md) and west to the ancient House capitals of [Mournhold](Lore_Mournhold.md), where it empties into [Lake Amaya](Lore_Lake_Amaya_(Deshaan).md) (also called Lake Thir), and south to [Narsis](Lore_Narsis.md), where it splits off into a tributary called the Loqueach River. In the north, it flows out from a water source atop the peaks near the Obsidian Gorge, and heads north through the [Brothers of Strife](Lore_Brothers_of_Strife_(place).md), meeting the lava flows of [Ash Mountain](Lore_Ash_Mountain.md) and [Tormented Spire](Lore_Tormented_Spire.md), before it encircles the islands of [Ebonheart](Lore_Ebonheart.md). Its delta is found around Ebonheart and [Vivec's Antlers](Lore_Vivec%27s_Antlers.md), straight south of [Vivec City](Lore_Vivec_(city).md), where the Thir River empties into the [Inner Sea](Lore_Inner_Sea.md).

## Thirsk
[Thirsk](Lore_Thirsk.md) is a Mead Hall created by [Hrothmund the Red](Lore_Hrothmund_the_Red.md) and some fellow [Skaal](Lore_Skaal.md) early in the third century of the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md) (though some residents claim the founding dates back into the late [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), circa [2E 823](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_823)). It is located south of [Skaal Village](Lore_Skaal_Village.md) in the [Felsaad Coast](Lore_Felsaad_Coast.md) region, on the banks of [Lake Fjalding](Lore_Lake_Fjalding.md).

## Thormar
[Thormar](Lore_Thormar.md) (alternatively called **Thormar Keep**) is an [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) ruin located in the border region of [Reaper's March](Lore_Reaper%27s_March.md), in the province of [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md). Thormar is a rather insignificant ruin, but it is the gathering place for Baan Dar's Boast, a celebration between the [Wood Elves](Lore_Wood_Elves.md) and the [Khajiit](Lore_Khajiit.md), where both factions prank and pull practical jokes with each other for the chance to partake in [Baan Dar](Lore_Baan_Dar.md)'s [Five Fingers Dance](Lore_Five_Fingers_Dance.md).

## Thorn
[Thorn](Lore_Thorn.md) is one of the eight major cities in the province of [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md), in the [Thornmarsh](Lore_Thornmarsh.md) region. Historically, the settlement has ties to the Great House of [Dres](Lore_Dres.md), whose slave-raid on the city earned it its title as a [Great House](Lore_Great_House.md). Thorn earned the epithet of the **[Jewel of the East](Lore_Jewel_of_the_East.md)**, and the town is just as deadly as it is beautiful; vagabonds are always eyeing purse strings and the guards always turn a blind eye.

## Thornmarsh
[Thornmarsh](Lore_Thornmarsh.md), known as the **[Jewel of the East](Lore_Jewel_of_the_East.md)**, is a coastal region in northeastern [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md). It is bordered by [Shadowfen](Lore_Shadowfen.md) to the west, [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md) to the north, and the [Padomaic Ocean](Lore_Padomaic_Ocean.md) to the east. The region contains the city of [Thorn](Lore_Thorn.md). Like the rest of northern Black Marsh, the area has more temperate grasslands compared to the swampier areas in the south.

It borders Morrowind to the north around [Tear](Lore_Tear.md), a coastal plain part of the [Dres District](Lore_House_Dres.md).

The [Argonian](Lore_Argonian.md) tribes of Thornmarsh were one of three regions of Black Marsh to join the [Ebonheart Pact](Lore_Ebonheart_Pact.md) at its founding in [2E 572](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_572). The Four-Spike Wattle is an arrangement of throat spines particularly popular on the coastal shores of Thornmarsh.

## Thorstad Place
[Thorstad Place](Lore_Thorstad_Place.md) (also simply called **Thorstad** and potentially named **Mold**)<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_nb1)</sup> is a settlement found in the north-central part of the province of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), found west-southwest of the city-state, [Skaven](Lore_Skaven.md).

## Thras
[Thras](Lore_Thras.md), also known as the **Coral Kingdoms**, the **Sloadlands** and the **Thrassian Archipelago**, is an archipelago located southwest of [the Chain](Lore_The_Chain.md) and northwest of the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md), within either the [Sea of Pearls](Lore_Sea_of_Pearls.md) or the [Abecean Sea](Lore_Abecean_Sea.md). It is the little-known home of the [Sload](Lore_Sload.md), and was the source of the deadly [Thrassian Plague](Lore_Thrassian_Plague.md) that swept [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) in [1E 2200](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_2200). In response to the Plague, the people of Tamriel assembled the All Flags Navy, which sunk the islands of Thras, though the surviving Sload managed to bring the islands back to the surface. The Pillar of Thras, a thousand-foot-tall spiral of coral said to be a portal to [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md), stands on the largest island. The Sload make sacrifices here, and while many of them die, a few seem to disappear a moment before being dashed on the rocks.

The geography of Thras appears to change over time. The earliest maps of Thras show a semi-circular group of sixteen islands, similar in formation to a partially-submerged coral atoll. The number and size of the islands varies significantly in maps charted over subsequent centuries. **Agonio**, the largest island in the archipelago, is depicted as much larger in the most recent maps than it was in the oldest. It is unknown if this fluctuation is caused by the tides or other, possibly unnatural means. Some sources suggest the archipelago itself may be some sort of living organism. The most consistent feature of Thras is a brackish lagoon found in the archipelago's center, where the Sload are able to move with relative quickness and grace using a network of coral formations and ancient shipwrecks.

## Throat of the World
The [Throat of the World](Lore_Throat_of_the_World.md) (also called the **Monahven** (lit. Mother Wind) by the [Dragons](Lore_Dragon.md) as well as in common parlance, **Mount Hrothgar**, **High Hrothgar**, or **Throat Mountain**) is the highest mountain in all of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), and one of the tallest peaks in [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md), second only to [Red Mountain](Lore_Red_Mountain.md) in the east. Ancient [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) tradition dictates that [man](Lore_Man.md) was created when the sky breathed on the land through the mountain, hence its name. It is because of this, one of Skyrim's nicknames is also the Throat of the World. The mountain is believed to be one of the mythical [Towers](Lore_The_Towers.md) and is known through this legend as the **Snow Throat** or the **Snow Tower**. The Snow-Throat's founding stone is described as "the cave".<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_Cave)</sup>

## Tideholm
[Tideholm](Lore_Tideholm.md) is an island off the coast of the province of [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md), where the [Topal Bay](Lore_Topal_Bay.md) meets the [Southern Sea](Lore_Southern_Sea.md). It is specifically east of the port town of [South Guard](Lore_South_Guard.md), east of the [Quin'rawl Peninsula](Lore_Quin%27rawl_Peninsula.md). Built inside the island's small mountain is the ruined citadel, **Fort Vashr**, a [Khajiiti](Lore_Khajiit.md) ruin that has long since been abandoned. The entirety of Tideholm has been described as a haunted deathtrap.

## Tidewater Cave
[Tidewater Cave](Lore_Tidewater_Cave.md) is a natural sea cave found just southeast of [Leyawiin](Lore_Leyawiin.md) on the shore of [Topal Bay](Lore_Topal_Bay.md), near the mouth of the [Lower Niben](Lore_Lower_Niben.md). As the name would imply, the cave's tunnels are partially flooded.

## Tigonus
[Tigonus](Lore_Tigonus.md) is a large humid region in northern [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), specifically in the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md) region. The coast on the bay is a humid swamp while the interior is a verdant subtropical rainforest. A small island under its jurisdiction can be found northeast of the mainland, near the border to the [Dragontail Mountains](Lore_Dragontail_Mountains.md). A large mountain can be found on the edge of Tigonus, near the small bay it shares with [Ayasofya](Lore_Ayasofya.md), around the Ngonta Valley.

## Tigonus (fiefdom)
[Tigonus](Lore_Tigonus.md) is a large humid region in northern [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), specifically in the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md) region. The coast on the bay is a humid swamp while the interior is a verdant subtropical rainforest. A small island under its jurisdiction can be found northeast of the mainland, near the border to the [Dragontail Mountains](Lore_Dragontail_Mountains.md). A large mountain can be found on the edge of Tigonus, near the small bay it shares with [Ayasofya](Lore_Ayasofya.md), around the Ngonta Valley.

## Topal Bay
[Topal Bay](Lore_Topal_Bay.md) (also known as **Topal Sea**) is a large, placid body of water south of Tamriel. It is enclosed by the provinces of [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md), [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md), and [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). In Cyrodiil, the city of [Leyawiin](Lore_Leyawiin.md) and the [Blackwood](Lore_Blackwood.md) region lie on Topal Bay, at the delta of the [Niben River](Lore_Niben_River.md). The bay's western shores are defined by Elsweyr's [Quin'rawl Peninsula](Lore_Quin%27rawl_Peninsula.md), where a great deal of smuggling occurs. Topal Bay empties into the [Southern Sea](Lore_Southern_Sea.md).

The bay is named after [Topal the Pilot](Lore_Topal_the_Pilot.md), the [Aldmer](Lore_Aldmer.md) explorer who discovered the Niben River and charted Tamriel's sea lanes. The bay's coastline to the east with Black Marsh has long been notorious for rampant piracy. The bay is also fed by the [Onkobra River](Lore_Onkobra_River.md), which supposedly flows from the heart of Black Marsh.

The [Khajiit](Lore_Khajiit.md) believe that [moon sugar](Lore_Moon_Sugar.md) is "crystallized moonlight" caught by the waters of the bay and brought to the sugarcane groves of the [Tenmar Forest](Lore_Tenmar_Forest.md) by the tidal forces of [Masser](Lore_Masser.md) and [Secunda](Lore_Secunda.md). Khajiit Moon-Priests tend to the sacred waters of the Bay that flow into [Moonlit Cove](Lore_Moonlit_Cove.md), natural caverns where this moons-blessed water is sheltered from the sun's rays.

## Topal Island
[Topal Island](Lore_Topal_Island.md) is a far-off island region (sometimes depicted as a chain of three islands), located in the middle of [Topal Bay](Lore_Topal_Bay.md). The island region is located roughly southeast of [Leyawiin](Lore_Leyawiin.md) and northwest of [Soulrest](Lore_Soulrest.md), adjacent to the strip of land around [Xi-Tsei](Lore_Xi-Tsei.md) that belongs to [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). Additionally, the volcanic islet of [Grand Topal Hideaway](Lore_Grand_Topal_Hideaway.md) lies off the eastern coast of Topal Island.

The island shares its namesake with Topal Bay, which was named after [Topal the Pilot](Lore_Topal_the_Pilot.md).

## Tor Draioch
[Tor Draioch](Lore_Tor_Draioch.md) is a wizard's tower located in the Oakenvald region of [High Isle](Lore_High_Isle.md), south of the Dufort Shipyards. It was considered a striking location by some, being included in tourism guides of High Isle and featured in paintings. Circa [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md), the tower was owned by Magister Irin.

The source of Tor Draioch's power is shrouded in legend, though one story remains prevalent above all. The tower supposedly stands in a historical location where an ancient battle against a powerful sorceress turned [spirit](Lore_Nature_Spirit.md) named [Windsorrow](Lore_Windsorrow.md) took hold. According to legends, this ancient woman fell in love and bore children with a passing chieftain. Eventually betrayed by the same, catching him in an affair. Her partner's lover murdered this ancient's children, which consumed her with rage and grief. Due to this her powers took hold, unleashing the winds on High Isle and destroying all in her path. Only when stopped by a group of heroes did peace return to the land. Her presence remained however, as the magical [motes](Lore_Mote.md) which manifest around the tower are believed to be not just remnants of her spirit, but of her murdered childrens' as well.

Tor Draioch is surrounded with protective wards to prevent wayward magic from spreading beyond its perimeters. Within the tower there is an arcane library, similarly protected and defended with wards. The motes which surround the tower are capable of casting incantations on people, such as [illusory](Lore_Illusion.md) shapeshifting.

## Tor-Hame-Khard
[Tor-Hame-Khard](Lore_Tor-Hame-Khard.md) (meaning "Warlord's Mountain Lair" in [High Elvish](Lore_High_Elvish.md)) is a ruined estate located beyond the city-state of [Shimmerene](Lore_Shimmerene.md), within the province of the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md). The site later lent its name to the town of **Thorheim Guard**, a butchered Tamrielic version of the original name.

## Torval
[Torval](Lore_Torval.md) is one of the eight major cities in the province of [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md), and is situated in the dense jungles of the [Tenmar Forest](Lore_Tenmar_Forest.md). Torval is the seat of power for the [Mane](Lore_Mane.md), the spiritual and temporal leader of the [Khajiit](Lore_Khajiit.md). Their tribe lives with them in exotic palaces and symmetrical [moon sugarcane](Lore_Moon_Sugar.md) gardens. The city has a long history associated with the Mane, going back to its time as one of the sixteen kingdoms. In modern-day, Torval is known for its southern wines.

## Totambu
[Totambu](Lore_Totambu.md) is an inland fiefdom of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), south of the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md). It was named after [Na-Totambu](Lore_Na-Totambu.md), the ruling class of [Yokuda](Lore_Yokuda.md) and progenitors of the Hammerfell [Crowns](Lore_Crowns.md) faction.

Totambu borders [Lainlyn](Lore_Lainlyn_(barony).md) to the northwest, [Satakalaam](Lore_Satakalaam_(county).md) to the north, [Mournoth](Lore_Mournoth_(fiefdom).md) to the northeast, the [Dragontail Mountains](Lore_Dragontail_Mountains.md) to the south, and [Kozanset](Lore_Kozanset_(barony).md) to the west. The main deity of this [Redguard](Lore_Redguard.md) -dominated region is [Zenithar](Lore_Zenithar.md). The military force of Totambu is the [Order of the Scarab](Lore_Order_of_the_Scarab.md). They also served as the official guard for the royal family of Totambu, based in the city of Totambu. The [Khulari](Lore_Khulari.md) clan is the predominant [vampire](Lore_Vampire.md) bloodline in the region.

After the [Warp in the West](Lore_Warp_in_the_West.md), Totambu came under the dominion of the Kingdom of [Sentinel](Lore_Sentinel_(kingdom).md) ruled by the [Forebears](Lore_Forebears.md) faction. Later, however, it became a site of a [Crown](Lore_Crowns.md) rebellion against [King Lhotun](Lore_Lhotun.md) of Sentinel. Totambu declared independence from Sentinel and pledged allegiance to the Crown leader Ayaan-si, High Prophet of [Elinhir](Lore_Elinhir.md). Even though Lhotun's kingdom surrounded Totambu on all four sides, its people kept holding their resistance. The Knights of the Scarab remained a military force in the region even after the Warp.

## Treva River
The [Treva River](Lore_Treva_River.md) is a small river at the center of [the Rift](Lore_The_Rift.md) in southeastern [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). It flows northwest from [Lake Honrich](Lore_Lake_Honrich.md) to [Lake Geir](Lore_Lake_Geir.md). It was perhaps named after the eponymous founder of Treva's Farm on its eastern bank, which was built sometime before [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582). By [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201), the site instead hosted the fort Treva's Watch.

## Mount Trolhetta
[Trolhetta](Lore_Trolhetta.md), also known as **Mount Trolhetta**, is a large mountain located in the [Smokefrost Peaks](Lore_Smokefrost_Peaks.md) region of southeast [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), bordering [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) and [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). Its located approximately at the intersection of the [Jerall](Lore_Jerall_Mountains.md), [Velothi](Lore_Velothi_Mountains.md) and [Valus](Lore_Valus_Mountains.md) mountain ranges.

## Trumbe
[Trumbe](Lore_Trumbe.md) (translated as *"[of] protection"*) is an [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) ruin located in the [Gold Coast](Lore_Gold_Coast.md) region of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), in the rugged highlands northwest of [Kvatch](Lore_Kvatch.md). It was abandoned by its Ayleid occupants after the [Alessian Slave Rebellion](Lore_Alessian_Slave_Rebellion.md) and fell into ruin.

During [Varen's Rebellion](Lore_Varen%27s_Rebellion.md) of the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md), Trumbe was cut off from the rest of the Gold Coast by [Varen's Wall](Lore_Varen%27s_Wall_(place).md), a situation which persisted for many years thereafter.. During the return of the [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Prince.md) [Ithelia](Lore_Ithelia.md), a [Daedric](Lore_Daedra.md) incursion from the plane of [Mirrormoor](Lore_Mirrormoor.md) occurred near Trumbe.

On Fredas, the 12th day of [Rain's Hand](Lore_Rain%27s_Hand.md) [3E 431](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_431), a group of adventurers led by Grommok gro-Barak entered the ruins of Trumbe in search of treasure. The ruins were crawling with undead at this time and the adventurers fled, although they managed to drag a locked metal container back to their camp nearby. After eventually managing to open the container, the adventurers discovered a trove of [Tsaesci](Lore_Tsaesci_(race).md) treasure, including the Talisman of Abetment and the enchanted swords [Dawnfang and Duskfang](Lore_Dawnfang_and_Duskfang.md). The ruins were still plagued by undead circa [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433).

## Tsaesci
[Tsaesci](Lore_Tsaesci_(place).md) (meaning **Snake Palace**; see [pronunciation](Lore_Tsaesci_(race).md)) is a nation found in the southwest of [Akavir](Lore_Akavir.md). It was once the most powerful nation in Akavir, before [Tosh Raka](Lore_Tosh_Raka.md) came to [Po Tun](Lore_Po_Tun.md) and renamed it [Ka Po' Tun](Lore_Ka_Po%27_Tun_(place).md). Its naval power remains unrivalled, and its holdings are widespread. Men once lived in Tsaesci, but the vampiric serpent-folk (also called [Tsaesci](Lore_Tsaesci_(race).md)) ate them (the use of the word eaten, however, is up to interpretation—it may be literal or metaphorical). The Tsaesci have enslaved the [goblins](Lore_Goblin.md) of the surrounding isles, and use them for labor and food. They once attempted to enslave the [dragons](Lore_Dragon.md) as well for use as food, and succeeded in [enslaving](Lore_Slavery.md#Tsaesci) the red dragons, but the black dragons fled to Po Tun. A great war was raged, which left both the [cat-folk](Lore_Ka_Po%27_Tun_(race).md) and the snakes weak, and resulted in the death of the dragons.

## Tuinh
[Tuinh](Lore_Tuinh.md) is a [druidic](Lore_Druid.md) settlement located off the southeastern coast of the [Galen](Lore_Galen.md), one of the islands of the [Systres Archipelago](Lore_Systres_Archipelago.md). It was inhabited by the members of the [Eldertide Circle](Lore_Eldertide_Circle.md). It lies to the south of Suncleft Cove.

## Tulune
[Tulune](Lore_Tulune.md) is a coastal city-state of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md). Situated at the most western end of the province, it is bordered by [Glenumbra Moors](Lore_Glenumbra_Moors_(barony).md) to the north, [Glenpoint](Lore_Glenpoint.md) to the east, and [Daggerfall](Lore_Daggerfall.md) to the southeast. The largest city is the city of Tulune. The dominant [vampire](Lore_Vampire.md) bloodline is the [Vraseth](Lore_Vraseth.md), and the regional deity is [Julianos](Lore_Julianos.md).

## Tundra Plain
The **Tundra Plain** or **Tundra Plains**, also known as the **Whiterun Tundra**, is an ecological region that takes up a majority of [Whiterun Hold](Lore_Whiterun_Hold.md) along with small parts of [Falkreath Hold](Lore_Falkreath_Hold.md), [Hjaalmarch](Lore_Hjaalmarch.md), [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md), and [the Pale](Lore_The_Pale.md), in the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). It is a vast plain with few trees, mostly flat but occasionally broken up by hills and outcrops. The Plain is dotted with a number of odd barrows and [Giant](Lore_Giant.md) camps, while the center is dominated by [Fort Greymoor](Lore_Fort_Greymoor.md) and [Lone Mountain](Lore_Lone_Mountain.md).

## Tuniria
[Tuniria](Lore_Tuniria.md) was one of the earliest [Corelanyan](Lore_Corelanya_Clan.md) settlements established on the isle of [Solstice](Lore_Solstice_(island).md). Situated southwest of [Sunport](Lore_Sunport.md), off the coast of the Western Bay, the town had ceased to act as an active settlement by the mid- [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). By that time, the site, then known as the **Ruins of Tuniria** had been repurposed by the College of Tomes of the Collegium Praxis as a training ground.

## Turnpoint
[Turnpoint](Lore_Turnpoint.md) is a small settlement near the border of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) and [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md), known for its abundant natural resources from the surrounding forests and rivers, as well as its signature stew.

## Tu'whacca's Throne
[Tu'whacca's Throne](Lore_Tu%27whacca%27s_Throne.md) is a large necropolis built on a vast plateau overlooking the [Alik'r Desert](Lore_Alik%27r_Desert.md), in the province of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md). As its name suggests, it is dedicated to [Tu'whacca](Lore_Tu%27whacca.md), the [Redguard](Lore_Redguard.md) god of [souls](Lore_Souls.md) and caretaker of the afterlife, the [Far Shores](Lore_Far_Shores.md). This site, in particular, is a monument to the many [Yokudans](Lore_Yokudan.md) who perished in the continent's sinking and the burial site for many [heroes](Lore_Hero.md) and honored ancestors in Redguardic history.

## Twil
[Twil](Lore_Twil.md) is an obscure place associated with King [Hrol](Lore_Hrol.md) and Duke Quarl.

## Twilight Sepulcher
The [Twilight Sepulcher](Lore_Twilight_Sepulcher.md) is an underground nordic ruin located in the deep woods of [Falkreath Hold](Lore_Falkreath_Hold.md), near the provincial border of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). The ruins serve as a temple dedicated to [Nocturnal](Lore_Nocturnal.md), the [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Prince.md) of Darkness and Luck, and it has been guarded by the [Nightingale Trinity](Lore_Nightingale_Trinity.md) for many years, even after death to which they serve as spectral guardians. The temple also serves as a conduit to the [Evergloam](Lore_Evergloam.md), via the [portal](Lore_Magical_Transportation.md), the [Ebonmere](Lore_Ebonmere.md), which is activated and locked by the [Skeleton Key](Lore_Skeleton_Key.md). The Ebonmere appears as a three-pronged portal, with a circle of impossibly deep blue vapors congealing around it, and the circles of the waxing and waning moon at its base imbue users with powers befitting of a Nightingale Agent. The Nightingales have ease of access to the Ebonmere through a portal in their headquarters, the [Nightingale Hall](Lore_Nightingale_Hall.md), must drink deeply from the Ebonmere to become Agents of Nocturnal.

## References
1. [^](#cite_ref-Attrebus_1-0) [Attrebus biography](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/General:Redguard.com_Archive/Characters) in *[Redguard](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Redguard:Redguard)*
2. [^](#cite_ref-Halfas_Varn_2-0) [Halfas Varn](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Arena:Halfas_Varn)'s dialogue in *[Arena](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Arena:Arena)*