# Places M

[Overview](Lore_Places.md) | [A](Lore_Places_A.md) [B](Lore_Places_B.md) [C](Lore_Places_C.md) [D](Lore_Places_D.md) [E](Lore_Places_E.md) [F](Lore_Places_F.md) [G](Lore_Places_G.md) [H](Lore_Places_H.md) [I](Lore_Places_I.md) [J](Lore_Places_J.md) [K](Lore_Places_K.md) [L](Lore_Places_L.md) M [N](Lore_Places_N.md) [O](Lore_Places_O.md) [P](Lore_Places_P.md) [Q](Lore_Places_Q.md) [R](Lore_Places_R.md) [S](Lore_Places_S.md) [T](Lore_Places_T.md) [U](Lore_Places_U.md) [V](Lore_Places_V.md) [W](Lore_Places_W.md) [X](Lore_Places_X.md) [Y](Lore_Places_Y.md) [Z](Lore_Places_Z.md) | [Maps](Lore_Maps.md)
---

## Maar Gan
[Maar Gan](Lore_Maar_Gan.md) (also called **Markgran Forest**) was a [kwama](Lore_Kwama.md) -mining village in the ash wastes of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md), found within the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). According to [Tribunal](Lore_Tribunal_Temple.md) mythology, the town was the site of a confrontation between [Vivec](Lore_Vivec.md) and [Mehrunes Dagon](Lore_Mehrunes_Dagon.md), where the warrior-poet taunted the [daedric prince](Lore_Daedric_Prince.md) so he would throw a rock intended for the [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) at them instead. Since then, a shrine was built around the **Magic Rock of Maar Gan** and the town became a popular pilgrimage stop.

## Mackamentain
[Mackamentain](Lore_Mackamentain.md) was an [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) [ruin](Lore_Ayleid_Ruins.md) located next to a lake of the [Silverfish River](Lore_Silverfish_River.md) in the eastern [Nibenay Basin](Lore_Nibenay_Basin.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). It was among the only modern Ayleid sites that still bore their ancient names by the time of the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md). Its lower sections were referred to as the Tombs of the Undead and the Necromancer's Asylum.

## Madding Wind Prison
[Madding Wind Prison](Lore_Madding_Wind_Prison.md) is a penitentiary located somewhere within [Daggerfall Covenant](Lore_Daggerfall_Covenant.md) territory. Criminals who have commmited crimes against the Covenant are held there as prisoners. The Daggerfall Five were detained and imprisoned there prior to the [Planemeld](Lore_Planemeld.md). Circa [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), the Painted Eye seized [Borderwatch](Lore_Borderwatch.md) and demanded that the Five be liberated.

## Malabal Tor
[Malabal Tor](Lore_Malabal_Tor.md) is a region deep in the Green of northwestern [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md). The area is populated by [hoarvors](Lore_Hoarvor.md) and [stranglers](Lore_Strangler.md). The western coastline is known as the [Broken Coast](Lore_Broken_Coast.md). East of it is the [Xylo River Basin](Lore_Xylo_River_Basin.md), and to the northeast is [Silvenar Vale](Lore_Silvenar_Vale.md). The capital [Silvenar](Lore_Silvenar.md), the spiritual home of all [Bosmer](Lore_Bosmer.md), is in the southeast area of the region. Malabal Tor is also dotted with numerous smaller Bosmeri settlements and ports. Little light reaches the forest floor; those who wish to see the moons and stars must climb the highest bluffs to get a good glimpse of the night sky. Legends speak of a pool in an ancient glade somewhere in the forest which may grant immortality.

Malabal Tor is bounded to the north by the mouth of the [Strid River](Lore_Strid_River.md), which empties into the [Abecean Sea](Lore_Abecean_Sea.md). The shrouded islands off the coast of Malabal Tor are both beautiful and treacherous. Horseshoe Island is the largest of the region's islands, found in the mouth of the Strid. While plotting an invasion of the region circa [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), the [Maormer](Lore_Maormer.md) planned to use the nearby [Tempest Island](Lore_Tempest_Island.md) as a base for their assault, and counted on its history of bizarre inclement weather to provide them cover. [Falinesti](Lore_Falinesti.md) journeyed to Malabal Tor in the summer, and in the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), the walking city rooted itself along the northwestern shores of the region.

## Malada
[Malada](Lore_Malada.md) (or the **High Fane** in [Ayleidoon](Lore_Ayleidoon.md)) was an [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) temple found in the [Nibenay Basin](Lore_Nibenay_Basin.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), north of [Lake Canulus](Lore_Lake_Canulus.md). The ruins are known for their distinctive exterior pillar.

## Mania
[Mania](Lore_Mania.md) is a region of [the Shivering Isles](Lore_Shivering_Isles.md) located in the northern highlands of the main landmass. It reflects the lighthearted side of Lord [Sheogorath](Lore_Sheogorath.md)'s madness. It is similar to [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md)'s [West Gash](Lore_West_Gash.md) region in appearance, with expansive grasslands and huge mushroom trees. Overlook Road passes through the region. The Isle of Flame, the Laughing Coast, the peninsula of Saint's Watch, and the Jester's Spine Mountains are important geographical features in the region.

The villages of [Highcross](Lore_Highcross.md) and [Hale](Lore_Hale_(settlement).md) appear welcoming but are populated by harmless maniacs. The halls of [Brellach](Lore_Brellach.md) contain the Wellspring of the [Aureal](Lore_Aureal.md). The lawbreakers of the region are imprisoned in the deadly ruins of Aichan. [Cylarne](Lore_Cylarne.md), thought to have been the original capital of the Shivering Isles, is located on the Isle of Flame.

## Mantellan Crux
The [Mantellan Crux](Lore_Mantellan_Crux.md) was a small, self-contained plane located in [Aetherius](Lore_Aetherius.md) that was designed as a puzzle to test those who would seek the heart of [Numidium](Lore_Numidium.md). Its name was derived from the [Mantella](Lore_Mantella.md), a large soul gem that was once used to power the Numidium. The plane served as the resting place and prison of the Mantella after it was blasted from [Mundus](Lore_Mundus.md) at the dawn of the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md) by [Zurin Arctus](Lore_Zurin_Arctus.md).

## Marbruk
[Marbruk](Lore_Marbruk.md) (or **Marbruk Field**) is a city located deep in the forests of [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md), in eastern [Greenshade](Lore_Greenshade.md), north of [Greenheart](Lore_Greenheart.md) and west of [Elden Root](Lore_Elden_Root.md). It connects the wild interior of the region with [Grahtwood](Lore_Grahtwood.md).

## Markarth
[Markarth](Lore_Markarth.md) (translated as *"Above the [Karth](Lore_Karth_River.md)"* in the Reach language, also known as **Mar-Karth** and also called **Markarth Side**) is one of the nine major cities in the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), found in the river valley of [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md). Known colloquially as the *"City of Stone,"* it is a former [Dwarven](Lore_Dwemer.md) city built through a large stone crag, intricately designed around the cliffs and waterfalls from the environment. Since the region is poor farmland, Markarth is mainly a mining-town that has a vast influx of [silver](Lore_Silver.md) veins in the mountain. The city is the focal point of power throughout the region. It is often disputed over between the [Reachmen](Lore_Reachmen.md) and the [Nords](Lore_Nord.md). Markarth was founded on the abandoned remains of the radiant city, **[Nchuand-Zel](Lore_Nchuand-Zel.md)**.

## Market District (Imperial City)
The [Market District](Lore_Market_District_(Imperial_City).md) (more formally called the **Imperial Market District**) is one of the six districts in the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md), found right in the center of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). It is the city's designated trading district and is considered one of the best across the province. Anything can be bought and sold here. People from all over town and even beyond come to peddle their wares. People wander in crowds, stalls are set up to sell street food, and established shops trade all sorts of services. For a time in the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md), the Market District was converted to a large graveyard known as the **Memorial District**.

## Lake Masobi
[Lake Masobi](Lore_Lake_Masobi.md) was a lake in the northwest corner of the [Ascadian Isles](Lore_Ascadian_Isles.md). The busy trading village of [Suran](Lore_Suran.md) was on its north and east shores. The Nabia River flowed into the lake in its northeastern corner, connecting it to [Lake Nabia](Lore_Lake_Nabia.md). Lake Masobi, in turn, flowed into the craggy coastline of southeastern [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md). It also joined to [Lake Hairan](Lore_Lake_Hairan.md) in the west via a small channel, and [Lake Amaya](Lore_Lake_Amaya_(Vvardenfell).md) lay to the northwest. [Vivec](Lore_Vivec_(city).md) was due south. In the days before the [Red Year](Lore_Red_Year.md), it was surrounded by rich and productive agricultural fields, and some [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) mansions dotted its shoreline. Considering the cataclysms of the Red Year, though, it's unclear if the lake still exists.

## Masser
[Masser](Lore_Masser.md), also known as **Jode**, **Mara's Tear** and **Zennji** in [Ta'agra](Lore_Ta%27agra.md), is the greater of [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md)'s two [moons](Lore_Moons.md) and is acknowledged as one of the attendant spirits of the mortal plane. As such, it is both temporal and subject to the bounds of mortality. As with all astral bodies seen from Nirn, the [moons](Lore_Moons.md) and [dominion planets](Lore_Planets.md), Masser is said to actually be a separate [plane](Lore_Planes_of_Existence.md) in its own right, infinite in size and mass, with its appearance as a sphere being only a visual phenomenon caused by mortal mental stress. Masser has long since perished and its death has led to mortals perceiving its previously pure white and featureless sphere as having its current texture and reddish hue, the moon's "skin" withering away. According to some accounts, the mortal realms were formed by the Aedra out of [Creatia](Lore_Chaotic_Creatia.md).

## Mazzatun
[Mazzatun](Lore_Mazzatun.md) is a ruined city found in the region of [Shadowfen](Lore_Shadowfen.md), within the province of [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md). Colloquially known as the *"Puzzle City,"* Mazzatun is an expansive labyrinth of cramped walls, twisted hallways, and numerous dead-ends. The ruins are home to [Tsono-Xuhil](Lore_Tsono-Xuhil.md), a powerful, mad [Hist](Lore_Hist.md) tree that produces [Amber Plasm](Lore_Amber_Plasm.md), a strange substance that drives whoever ingests or bathes in it mad. The city was built and inhabited by its children, the [Argonian](Lore_Argonian.md) [Xit-Xaht](Lore_Xit-Xaht.md) tribe.

## Meditea
[Meditea](Lore_Meditea.md) is a region somewhere on [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) that is riddled with dungeons, usually filled with [rats](Lore_Rat.md) and [giant spiders](Lore_Giant_Spider.md). [Allena Benoch](Lore_Allena_Benoch.md) helped a local chieftain recover stolen [gold](Lore_Gold_(currency).md) from a pack of [Orcs](Lore_Orc.md).<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-WAP-1)</sup>

## Meir Darguard
[Meir Darguard](Lore_Meir_Darguard.md) is a settlement located on the west-central region of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md), southwest of the city-state, [Shornhelm](Lore_Shornhelm.md). The settlement shares its name with the **Darguard Ridge**, in the vicinity of [Rivenspire](Lore_Rivenspire.md).

## Meirvale
[Meirvale](Lore_Meirvale.md) (also known as **Ein Meirvale**) is a historic area within [Anequina](Lore_Anequina.md), the northern region of [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md). In its time, Meirvale was one of the original sixteen kingdoms of Elsweyr, known for their [brewers and distillers](Lore_Alcoholic_Beverages.md). But gradually, the Kingdom of Meirvale had ceased with the changing times and all that remained was the barren wastelands known as [the Scar](Lore_The_Scar.md). To this day, instead of drinking their spirits up, the people of the Scar now drink in sorrow. What little remains of the kingdom is the **Meirvale Keep**, which now serves as the seat of power for the shanty town, the Stitches.

## Menevia
[Menevia](Lore_Menevia.md) is a region in central [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md), within the larger region of [Stormhaven](Lore_Stormhaven.md). It borders [Alcaire](Lore_Alcaire.md) to the west, [Wrothgar](Lore_Wrothgar.md) to the north, and [Gavaudon](Lore_Gavaudon.md) to the east. The region contains the city of [Wayrest](Lore_Wayrest.md), as well as the small settlement of Farangel's Landing. Around [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), Menevia was home to Pariah Abbey, where the Spirit Wardens worshipped [Azura](Lore_Azura.md).

## Mereth
[Mereth](Lore_Mereth.md) was the name the first settlers from Atmora gave to the lands of northern Tamriel. The area is now known as [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md).<sup>[[2]](#cite_note-PGE1Sky-2)</sup><sup>[[3]](#cite_note-YATSG-3)</sup>

## Middle Argonia
[Middle Argonia](Lore_Middle_Argonia.md) is a far-off region found in the province of [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md), specifically in the center of the area. It wields a wide-spread reputation as the impenetrable center, and the dark heart of Black Marsh, where only the [Argonians](Lore_Argonian.md) can survive. The city of [Helstrom](Lore_Helstrom.md) is found here. The marsh is very dense, and it contains Helstrom Heart-Mud, which is known for being pitch black. The province is known for various river systems, all of which flow into Middle Argonia; such examples are the Oortrel and [Onkobra Rivers](Lore_Onkobra_River.md), found near the city of [Gideon](Lore_Gideon.md) and the region of [Shadowfen](Lore_Shadowfen.md).

## Milchar
[Milchar](Lore_Milchar.md) is an overgrown ruin in the uplands of [Mania](Lore_Mania.md) in the [Shivering Isles](Lore_Shivering_Isles.md). It is located on the banks of a lake along the Overlook Road, southeast of the settlement of Hale.

## Mines of Khuras
The [Mines of Khuras](Lore_Mines_of_Khuras.md) (or simply **Khuras**) are an extensive abandoned mine complex located in the [Cambray Hills](Lore_Cambray_Hills.md) region of [Glenumbra](Lore_Glenumbra.md) in [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md). The entrance lies on the coast east of [Aldcroft](Lore_Aldcroft.md), and the lower levels are flooded with lava.

In the late [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md), the mines were famous as a source of crystals and gems until a ceiling collapse rendered most of the tunnels inaccessible in [1E 2906](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_2906). The mines were subsequently abandoned. In [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), the mines were taken over by the [Bloodthorn Cult](Lore_Bloodthorn_Cult.md), who sought a certain type of gem for use in corrupting the [Wyrd Tree](Lore_Wyrd_Tree.md). Their leader, Lilou, was later killed.

Circa [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), Oracle Marieve of the [Beldama Wyrd](Lore_Beldama_Wyrd.md) was targeted by the [Court of Bedlam](Lore_Court_of_Bedlam.md) so that the cult could use her to discern the location of [Artaeum](Lore_Artaeum.md). The oracle fled to an old Wyrd site within the Mines of Khuras, but was tracked down by [Daedra](Lore_Daedra.md) and captured. She managed to leave a cryptic note for [Vanus Galerion](Lore_Vanus_Galerion.md) with instructions on how to perform a ritual to contact her. The ritual was completed by the [Vestige](Lore_The_Vestige.md) and the oracle was ultimately rescued from the clutches of [Mephala](Lore_Mephala.md) before she was forced to reveal Artaeum's whereabouts.

During the [Imperial Simulacrum](Lore_Imperial_Simulacrum.md), a junior member of the [Brotherhood of Seth](Lore_Brotherhood_of_Seth.md) from [Camlorn](Lore_Camlorn.md) named Brother Barnabas seemingly went mad after learning of [Emperor Uriel Septim VII](Lore_Uriel_Septim_VII.md)'s imprisonment. Taking it upon himself to restore the [Staff of Chaos](Lore_Staff_of_Chaos.md) and rescue the emperor, Barnabas took a map fragment that showed the location of the [Crypt of Hearts](Lore_Crypt_of_Hearts.md) and fled to Khuras. He was then killed by the monsters inhabiting the mines. When the [Eternal Champion](Lore_Hero.md) came in search of the staff piece hidden in the Crypt of Hearts, the Brotherhood revealed the fate of the map. The Champion then entered the mines and retrieved it.

## Mir Corrup
[Mir Corrup](Lore_Mir_Corrup.md) is a resort settlement located in the province of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). During the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), Mir Corrup experienced a period of time where it was a prominent resort for nobles. Mir Corrup is located in the mainland of [Nibenay](Lore_Nibenay.md), nowhere near a large body of water, overlooking [Caer Suvio](Lore_Caer_Suvio.md).

During the late [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md), Mir Corrup was known for its hot springs. It was here that [Emperor](Lore_Cyrodilic_Emperors.md) [Reman Cyrodiil III](Lore_Reman_III.md)'s mistress, Rijja, was captured by the [Imperial Guard](Lore_Imperial_Guard.md) for suspected conspiracy against the Emperor. The only evidence for this was Rijja's supposed involvement with [Catchica](Lore_Catchica.md), an [Orma](Lore_Orma.md) tribeswoman who attempted to poison Crown Prince [Juilek Cyrodiil](Lore_Juilek.md) during the [Four-Score War](Lore_Four-Score_War.md). Rijja had inadvertently met Catchica during her trip to Mir Corrup, which was followed by her arrest. Mir Corrup has been active since the late [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md), and the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md) amidst the [Imperial Simulacrum](Lore_Imperial_Simulacrum.md).

## Mirrormoor
[Mirrormoor](Lore_Mirrormoor.md) was the realm of the [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Princes.md) [Ithelia](Lore_Ithelia.md), Mistress of the Untraveled Road. [Fargrave](Lore_Fargrave.md) is a fragment of this forgotten realm.

Mirrormoor is a large desert wasteland filled with gargantuan skeletons and surrounded by an auroral sky. While Ithelia is active, it is filled by shattered mirrors and crystalline structures and the sky is fractured by cracks. Those elements were not present in Fargrave before Ithelia's return. Some stories have described a city of crystal buildings and many-hued courts.

## Miscarcand
[Miscarcand](Lore_Miscarcand.md) is an [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) [ruin](Lore_Ayleid_Ruins.md) found amidst the [West Weald](Lore_West_Weald.md), in the province of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). The largely-intact exterior of the ruin is one the biggest in Cyrodiil. It has two deeper subsections named *Sel Vanua* and *Morimath* which translate to "Deep Halls" and "Darkened Home" respectively.

Miscarcand was once the seat of power for a powerful Ayleid kingdom, but it has since fallen into disrepair following the [Alessian Slave Rebellion](Lore_Alessian_Slave_Rebellion.md). It is said to be haunted by their last king, [Morimath](Lore_Morimath.md), a vengeful spirit who guarded one of the few remaining [Great Welkynd Stones](Lore_Great_Welkynd_Stone.md) that continued to shine in its halls for many years. Many would die in vain attempting to claim the Great Stone of Miscarcand.

## Mistral
[Mistral](Lore_Mistral.md) is a major port city on the island of [Khenarthi's Roost](Lore_Khenarthi%27s_Roost.md) inhabited by both [Khajiit](Lore_Khajiit.md) and [Maormer](Lore_Maormer.md).

## Mistwatch
[Mistwatch](Lore_Mistwatch.md) is a region in southern [Eastmarch](Lore_Eastmarch.md), located near the southern edge of the volcanic tundra.

The ancient [Nords](Lore_Nord.md) built a temple in a secluded valley at Mistwatch sometime in the [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md). Although most of the Nordic temples were built by the [Dragon Cult](Lore_Dragon_Cult.md), the sacred Totems at Mistwatch were dedicated to the worship of the Bear, Fox and Wolf, ancient [Atmoran](Lore_Atmora.md) deities. Worship continued at the ruins well into the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md) by an ostracized group known as the [Ternion Monks](Lore_Ternion_Monks.md). Greater Nord society frowned upon their worship of the Three Old Gods, so the monks lived in relative isolation, with access to the ruins being limited to teleportation magic.

## History
In [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), [Jorunn the Skald-King](Lore_Jorunn.md) was poisoned at [Fort Amol](Lore_Fort_Amol.md) during an attack from [Fildgor Orc-Thane](Lore_Fildgor.md)'s forces. Fearing for the stability of the [Ebonheart Pact](Lore_Ebonheart_Pact.md) if the High King were to die, Jorunn's allies went to extreme measures in an attempt to cure the Daedric poisoning. With the blood of a [vampire](Lore_Vampire.md) and the help of a Dreamwalker, Jorunn was brought before the Ternion Monks. Despite some difficulties, Jorunn's life was ultimately saved by the [Vestige](Lore_The_Vestige.md) and the power of the Three Old Gods.

Some time after this, the Ternion Monks seemingly disbanded and the ruins were lost. A military fort was built at Mistwatch, and eventually abandoned.

In [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201), a group of bandits took control of the ruined towers. A Nord woman named Fjola, returning to her homeland of Skyrim after fleeing her marriage, quickly took control of the group and began kidnapping travelers for ransom. Her husband Christer then came to the ruins, believing her to be a captive there. He sought the aid of the [Last Dragonborn](Lore_Last_Dragonborn.md) in "rescuing" her, which proved to be a fruitless endeavor.

## Mnemonic Planisphere
The [Mnemonic Planisphere](Lore_Mnemonic_Planisphere.md) is a facility found on the outskirts of the [Brass Fortress](Lore_Brass_Fortress.md), in the [Clockwork City](Lore_Clockwork_City.md). It serves the purpose of preserving [Sotha Sil](Lore_Sotha_Sil.md)'s memories, which manifest in floating balls of light known as stars that fly across its hallways. These stars are taken to the facility's center and placed in the planisphere, which resembles the night sky. These stars can be taken to a forming room to replay these memories. The planisphere is overseen by the Astronomer, whose free will is willingly taken to protect the facility until their death.

## Moesring Mountains
The [Moesring Mountains](Lore_Moesring_Mountains.md) region of northwestern [Solstheim](Lore_Solstheim.md) is a barren frozen wasteland mostly composed of the eponymous mountain range. The northern and western borders are white coastlines along the [Sea of Ghosts](Lore_Sea_of_Ghosts.md), while to the south are the [Isinfier Plains](Lore_Isinfier_Plains.md). To the east, the [Harstrad River](Lore_Harstrad_River.md) traditionally separated the Moesring from the northern reaches of the [Felsaad Coast](Lore_Felsaad_Coast.md). In the [Fourth Era](Lore_Fourth_Era.md), the delta of the Harstrad shifted northwest, one of several transformations likely wrought by the [Red Year](Lore_Red_Year.md).

## Molag Amur
The [Molag Amur](Lore_Molag_Amur.md) region is essentially the southern part of the [Ashlands](Lore_Ashlands.md). The two regions are ecologically similar, both being characterized by an arid landscape whose plant life tends to be [Trama Root](Lore_Trama_Root.md), [Fire Petal](Lore_Fire_Petal.md), and occasional [Chokeweed](Lore_Chokeweed.md). Molag Amur is distinguished from the northern Ashlands by the presence of lava pools and rivers on the surface. The land is predominantly made up of dark volcanic rock covered with an overlay of ash and cinder, but of a different makeup and appearance from that of the Ashlands proper. Although it is hard to understand how they survive, fauna include [Kagouti](Lore_Kagouti.md), [Alit](Lore_Alit.md), [Cliff Racers](Lore_Cliff_Racer.md), [Rats](Lore_Rat.md), and [Kwama Foragers](Lore_Kwama_Forager.md). There are also various [Daedra](Lore_Daedra.md) frequently seen in the area, including [Scamps](Lore_Scamp.md) and all types of [Atronachs](Lore_Elemental_Daedra.md).

Molag Amur is a large region, stretching from just east of [Balmora](Lore_Balmora.md) clear to the eastern coast, and from the [Grazelands](Lore_Grazelands.md) south to [Molag Mar](Lore_Molag_Mar.md). It is an irregular triangle, with a truncated point at the region around the [Dwemer ruin](Lore_Dwemer_Ruins.md) of Arkngthand, above the [Foyada Mamaea](Lore_Foyada_Mamaea.md) opposite [Moonmoth Legion Fort](Lore_Moonmoth_Legion_Fort.md). The northern boundary of the Molag Amur region starts just north of the bridge to Arkngthand, stretches eastward from there along the hills north of [Lake Nabia](Lore_Lake_Nabia.md), and turns north after the [Foyada Ashur-Dan](Lore_Foyada_Ashur-Dan.md) towards the southwest corner of the Grazelands, near the stronghold of Falensarano, and then runs east to the sea. Roads mainly consist of [foyadas](Lore_Foyada.md), volcanic ravines, leading east and north to the important pilgrim sites of [Mount Assarnibibi](Lore_Mount_Assarnibibi.md) and [Mount Kand](Lore_Mount_Kand.md).

The lower boundary begins below Arkngthand, over the mountains from [Lake Amaya](Lore_Lake_Amaya_(Vvardenfell).md), and curves down above the [Ascadian Isles](Lore_Ascadian_Isles.md), taking a sharp southerly bend which sees it on three sides of [Suran](Lore_Suran.md). It then goes due east to Molag Mar. On the east side of Molag Mar, there is an inlet, and Molag Amur lies to the north, and its border follows a rough line north from the eastern shore of that inlet.

The region is not dominated by any House: the majority of its inhabitants tend to be renegade necromancers and Mages, but [House Telvanni](Lore_House_Telvanni.md) has made inroads into the area with the foundation of Tel Uvirith. Relatively near there, the [Erabenimsun Camp](Lore_Erabenimsun_Camp.md) is a testimony to the presence of [Ashlander](Lore_Ashlanders.md) tribes in the eastern part of this region.

Molag Amur is generally an area one passes through out of necessity, not a place where any but the desperate would make a home. The sandstorms that rage throughout Molag Amur are legendary throughout the province. And it is said that [Silt Striders](Lore_Silt_Strider.md) were able to navigate them with ease. In [Tribunal](Lore_Tribunal_Temple.md) mythology, Molag Amur was the home of a race of monsters created from the copulation of [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md) and [Vivec](Lore_Vivec.md) from the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md).

## Molag Mar
[Molag Mar](Lore_Molag_Mar.md) (sometimes spelled **Molag Maar**) was a stronghold in the [Molag Amur](Lore_Molag_Amur.md) region of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md), found near the ends of [Foyada Ilibaal](Lore_Foyada_Ilibaal.md) and [Zabirbael](Lore_Foyada_Zabirbael.md). It was built in the same style as the cantons in [Vivec City](Lore_Vivec_City.md), and was referred to as a canton as well. It was a combination of a frontier garrison and a pilgrimage hostel jointly staffed and maintained by the [Tribunal Temple](Lore_Tribunal_Temple.md) and [House Redoran](Lore_House_Redoran.md), and was considered more a stronghold than a village. Both the Temple and House Redoran had garrisons of elite volunteers there to defend the stronghold. Pilgrims used the stronghold as a base from which they can attempt the difficult and dangerous pilgrimages to the [Mount Kand](Lore_Mount_Kand.md) and [Mount Assarnibibi](Lore_Mount_Assarnibibi.md) sites to the north in the Molag Amur wastelands. The fire fern plant grows around the area.

## Molmor Islet
[Molmor Islet](Lore_Molmor_Islet.md) is an isle located in the sea off [Galen](Lore_Galen.md)'s western shore. According to some stories the islet was created by [Eldertide](Lore_Eldertide_Circle.md) [Druid](Lore_Druids.md) [Belaigh](Lore_Belaigh.md) during the conflict between the [Sloads](Lore_Sload.md) of [Thras](Lore_Thras.md) and [All Flags Navy](Lore_All_Flags_Navy.md), at some point between [1E 2250](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_2250) and [1E 2260](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_2260).<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_nb1)</sup>

## Moni
[Moni](Lore_Moni.md) is a small island in the [Yokudan](Lore_Yokuda.md) archipelago, between the [Azurian Sea](Lore_Azurian_Sea.md) and the [Sea of Pearls](Lore_Sea_of_Pearls.md). It is just south of [Samara](Lore_Samara.md) and northeast of [Yath](Lore_Yath.md).

It was originally a territory of the [Lefthand Empire](Lore_Lefthand_Empire.md), and had long served as a refuge for exiles, pirates, and remnants of the [Sinistral Elves](Lore_Lefthanded_Elves.md). Naval records document protracted sieges of Elvish settlements east of Moni up until the latter years of the [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md). In the [1E 600 s](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_600), the combined purges of [Mansel Sesnit](Lore_Mansel_Sesnit.md) and decrees of [Randic Torn](Lore_Randic_Torn.md) led to many disfavored nobles and their vassals fleeing to the rocky islands east of Yokuda, Moni among them.

## Moonguard
[Moonguard](Lore_Moonguard.md) is a village in the province of [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md) that is located east of the city-state of [Camlorn](Lore_Camlorn.md). Moonguard was the home of [Gyron Vardengroet](Lore_Gyron_Vardengroet.md), commonly known as the Sage.

## Moonlit Cove
[Moonlit Cove](Lore_Moonlit_Cove.md) is an ancient Khajiiti temple found on the azure beaches of the [Quin'rawl Peninsula](Lore_Quin%27rawl_Peninsula.md), in the province of [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md). It is known for its luminous caverns that contains a plethora of exotic flora and fauna, the likes of which leave naturalists in awe of its glory. The moonlight and the waters from the [Southern Sea](Lore_Southern_Sea.md) and [Topal Bay](Lore_Topal_Bay.md) are harnessed and blended together into the cove to achieve the serene and calm ambiance of the night sky, blocking out the harsh sunlight from outside. Many people come to the temple to soak in the blessed [sugar](Lore_Moon_Sugar.md) waters and its shrines to soothe their mind, body, and [soul](Lore_Soul.md).

## Moonmont
[Moonmont](Lore_Moonmont.md) is an ancient [Khajiit](Lore_Khajiit.md) temple in the southern edge of [Reaper's March](Lore_Reaper%27s_March.md), in the province of [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md). It is sacred to worshippers of [Jode](Lore_Jode.md) and [Jone](Lore_Jone.md), the twin [moons](Lore_Moons.md) of the [Lunar Lattice](Lore_Lunar_Lattice.md). In Reaper's March, it is where the moons' light is focused the most, even referred by the [First Mane](Lore_Rid-Thar-ri%27Datta.md) as the "heart of lunar light." Pilgrims from all over flock here to bask in the light while the temple is overseen by the Two-Moons Clergy. Moonmont is built on a hill called the **Mount of the Moons**.

## Moonmoth Legion Fort
[Moonmoth Legion Fort](Lore_Moonmoth_Legion_Fort.md) was an [Imperial Legion](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md) fort located east of Balmora in the West Gash region of Vvardenfell. The fort offered an [Imperial Cult](Lore_Imperial_Cult.md) altar, and apothecary, enchanting, smithing and trading services.<sup>[[4]](#cite_note-Morrowind-4)</sup>

## Moonshadow
[Moonshadow](Lore_Moonshadow.md) is a realm of [Oblivion](Lore_Oblivion.md) created and ruled over by the [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Princes.md) [Azura](Lore_Azura.md), Queen of Dawn and Dusk. The realm is said to hold "too much beauty", so much so it can render mortal visitors "half-blind". It contains flowers, waterfalls, pink trees, and a city of silver. Azura herself resides in a rose palace, and is welcoming to mortal travelers.

To the [Khajiit](Lore_Khajiit.md), Moonshadow is where [Azurah](Lore_Azurah.md) tends the Gates of the Crossing—the bridge between Nirni and the afterlife beyond. It is there where they are guided to the [Sands Behind the Stars](Lore_Sands_Behind_the_Stars.md) if they are worthy.

According to myth, as Azurah wept in the [Great Darkness](Lore_Void.md) after the death of her [mother](Lore_Fadomai.md), the light from her tears chased away the Darkness and eventually left a "place of moonlight and shadow". Khajiiti mythology also writes that when [Magrus](Lore_Magrus.md) fled from [Boethra](Lore_Boethra.md) and [Lorkhaj](Lore_Lorkhaj.md) after the former had plucked his eye out, he fell into the Moonshadow. There, Azurah judged him as too fearful to rule a sphere, and tore out his other eye. The blinded Magrus fled to the [heavens](Lore_Aetherius.md), and Azurah made of his eye a "stone to reflect the [Varliance Gate](Lore_Varliance_Gate.md)".

## Morahame
[Morahame](Lore_Morahame.md) (meaning "Forest Home or Daedra Home" in [Ayleidoon](Lore_Ayleidoon.md)) is an [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) [ruin](Lore_Ayleid_Ruins.md) located east of [Bravil](Lore_Bravil.md), in the [Nibenay Valley](Lore_Nibenay_Valley.md) on the banks of the [Panther River](Lore_Panther_River.md).

The ruins are notable for the variety of plants that can be found growing near the complex, including [fennel](Lore_Fennel.md), [fly amanita](Lore_Fly_Amanita.md), [foxglove](Lore_Foxglove.md), [ginseng](Lore_Ginseng.md), [green stain shelf](Lore_Green_Stain_Shelf.md), [monkshood](Lore_Monkshood.md), [primrose](Lore_Primrose.md), [domica redwort](Lore_Domica_Redwort.md), [summer bolete](Lore_Summer_Bolete.md), and [Nirnroot](Lore_Nirnroot.md).

## Mor Khazgur
**Mor Khazgur** is an [Orc](Lore_Orc.md) stronghold on the border between the [holds](Lore_Hold.md) of [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md) and [Haafingar](Lore_Haafingar.md) in [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), located on the eastern slopes of the [Druadach Mountains](Lore_Druadach_Mountains.md). The mines lying below the surface of the stone fortress outpost serve as its primary source of income. An additional source of income came from the [Circle of Champions](Lore_Circle_of_Champions.md), who hosted bloodsport matches at the fortress during the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md).

## Moridunon
[Auridon](Lore_Auridon.md), also known as **Moridunon**<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_nb1)</sup> or **Kaelann**, is the second largest island in the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md), located off the far eastern coast of Summerset, and north of [Artaeum](Lore_Artaeum.md), between the main island and the continent of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). The main cities on the island are [Firsthold](Lore_Firsthold.md) to the north, [Skywatch](Lore_Skywatch.md) to the east, and [Vulkhel Guard](Lore_Vulkhel_Guard.md) to the south.

Auridon is one of fourteen islands of varying sizes that form the Summerset Isles, and is the eastern bulwark of the Summerset archipelago. The island was well defended throughout history not only by its veteran Elven warriors but also due to its unique position and natural geography. Walls of vast, craggy cliffs dotted its northern coast, and its strategic location protected mainland Summerset from numerous invasions. Auridon loans its name to the body of water that separates it from the main island, the [Auridon Strait](Lore_Auridon_Strait.md). The [Diceto River](Lore_Diceto_River.md) flows through the city of Firsthold and empties into the [Abecean Sea](Lore_Abecean_Sea.md) on the island's northern coast.

## Morrowind
[Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md), previously named **Dwemereth**, **Veloth**, **Resdayn**, **Resdaynia**, and **Dunmereth**, and also known as the **Land of Ash**, is the nation in the northeast corner of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md), and the home of the [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md). It is dominated by the large island of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md) and its centerpiece, the ash-spewing [Red Mountain](Lore_Red_Mountain.md), but also includes territory on the continental mainland. The [Inner Sea](Lore_Inner_Sea.md) separates Vvardenfell from the mainland, and the [Sea of Ghosts](Lore_Sea_of_Ghosts.md) lies to the region's north and east. [Solstheim](Lore_Solstheim.md), an island in this sea near northwestern Morrowind, has not traditionally been associated with any particular province, though Morrowind had long maintained a theoretical claim to it. The [Nords](Lore_Nord.md) of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) conceded the island to Morrowind in [4E 16](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_16) following the [Red Year](Lore_Red_Year.md), allowing the Dunmer to settle it without contest.

## Morthal
[Morthal](Lore_Morthal.md), supposedly named after the great Nord hero [Morihaus](Lore_Morihaus.md), is the capital of [Hjaalmarch](Lore_Hjaalmarch.md). It is a fairly small, humble town of little economic or strategic importance besides its small lumber mill. The town's symbol is a white [triskelion](Lore_Triskelion.md) on a field of gray reminiscent of its misty marshes. The triskelion's meaning, whether it represents the harmony of the mind, body, and spirit, or another concept entirely, was a topic of scholarly discussion. Tattoos featuring the Morthal triskelion were reserved solely for individuals who have valiantly defended Morthal and its inhabitants.

Sitting on the southern edge of the [Drajkmyr marsh](Lore_Drajkmyr.md), dry ground can be hard to come by in Morthal. It is often shrouded in a thick fog. Ominous twisted trees grow from the surrounding marsh, giving it a foreboding appearance to approaching travelers. The torches of the town glowing in the fog often give the impression of wisps at a distance. Many choose to steer clear of the place altogether.

## Mortrag Glacier
The [Mortrag Glacier](Lore_Mortrag_Glacier.md) was a large glacier once located along the northwestern coast of the island of [Solstheim](Lore_Solstheim.md) in the [Moesring Mountains](Lore_Moesring_Mountains.md). [Castle Karstaag](Lore_Castle_Karstaag.md) was located just east of it. The glacier was hollowed out and a [Daedric Ruin](Lore_Daedric_Ruins.md) was built within its interior, and it was used to host the [Hunter's Game](Lore_Hunter%27s_Game.md) during the [Bloodmoon Prophecy](Lore_Bloodmoon_Prophecy.md) of [3E 427](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_427). The icy tunnels were filled with [werewolves](Lore_Werewolf.md), the Hounds of [Hircine](Lore_Hircine.md). The Prince kidnapped four champions from the island and brought them to the glacier, to act as the Prey. The glacier was destroyed when an Aspect of Hircine was defeated by the [Nerevarine](Lore_Nerevarine.md), ending the Hunt and marking the first time that the Prey succeeded in killing the Hunter. The glacier subsequently collapsed, becoming a jagged ice field.

By the Fourth Era, the remnants of Mortrag Glacier would become known as [Mortrag Peak](Skyrim_Mortrag_Peak.md), one of the highest points on Solstheim. [Northshore Landing](Skyrim_Northshore_Landing.md) was built on the now-exposed shoreline just south of the remaining glacial ice, and [Horker Stalhrim Island](Skyrim_Unmarked_Places.md#Horker_Iceberg) formed out of one of the ice floes where two [Stalhrim](Lore_Stalhrim.md) -containing coffins tumbled out of the glacier.

## Mount Anthor
[Mount Anthor](Lore_Mount_Anthor.md) is a mountain found southwest of the city of [Winterhold](Lore_Winterhold_(city).md), in the [Winterhold](Lore_Winterhold_(region).md) region of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). The **Winterhold Mountains** stretch from [Hsaarik Head](Lore_Hsaarik_Head.md) in the northeast, traveling around the [Winterhold Glaciers](Lore_Winterhold_Glaciers.md) to Nightcaller Temple, and make up the border with [the Pale](Lore_The_Pale.md) to the south and east, meeting with [Eastmarch](Lore_Eastmarch.md)'s [Lake Yorgrim](Lore_Lake_Yorgrim.md) and [Giant's Run](Lore_Giant%27s_Run.md) in the southeast. Due to the grandness of the peak, the mountains are often referred to as the **Mount Anthor Range**, and include the Wayward Pass, named for the summit of **Wayward Peak**. Ancient [Nords](Lore_Nord.md) built a [Word Wall](Lore_Word_Walls.md) at the summit of the mountain.

The mountain is most famous as the site of the battle between [Olaf One-Eye](Lore_Olaf_One-Eye.md) and the [dragon](Lore_Dragon.md) [Numinex](Lore_Numinex.md) during the [War of Succession](Lore_War_of_Succession.md). According to [Taleon Mythmaker](Lore_Taleon_Mythmaker.md), the Crown of the Shadow of the [College of Winterhold](Lore_College_of_Winterhold.md) in the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md) was forged in the shadow of Mount Anthor and was named after it. The mountaintop once again became a dragon lair after the return of [Alduin](Lore_Alduin.md) in [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201), displacing the band of warlocks who had previously occupied it. The jarl of Winterhold put out several bounties in an attempt to drive off the dragons.

Sometime circa 4E 201, the [Forgotten Hero](Lore_Forgotten_Hero.md) and a [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) sorceress named Laaneth killed a dragon at Mount Anthor and retrieved its skull at the request of [Alfe Fyr](Lore_Alfe_Fyr.md).

## Mount Assarnibibi
[Mount Assarnibibi](Lore_Mount_Assarnibibi.md) is a mountain found in the region of [Molag Amur](Lore_Molag_Amur.md), on the island-district of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md). It is found in the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). The mountain summit contains a special shrine of the [Tribunal Temple](Lore_Tribunal_Temple.md), and many pilgrims pay their respects here, as well as the nearby [Mount Kand](Lore_Mount_Kand.md). The scope of the entire mountain is unclear, although the cave, Dubdilla is found under the mountain. The entrance to this cave can be found as far north as the southern outskirts of [Vos](Lore_Vos.md).

## Mount Jensen
[Mount Jensen](Lore_Mount_Jensen.md) was a mountain featured in the fictional novel series *[The Adventures of Eslaf Erol](Lore_The_Adventures_of_Eslaf_Erol.md)*. It was located in the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), outside the kingdom of [Erolgard](Lore_Erolgard.md) and near the village of [Hoarbeld](Lore_Hoarbeld.md) and the southern woods of [Tamburkar](Lore_Tamburkar.md).

## Mount Kilkreath
[Mount Kilkreath](Lore_Mount_Kilkreath.md) (also called **Kilkreath Mountain** or the **Haafingar Mountains**) is a vast mountain range that stretches across the [Haafingar Hold](Lore_Haafingar.md), in the northwest portion of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). The city of [Solitude](Lore_Solitude.md) is built on the eastern end of the mountain, on the natural arch that covers the [Karth River](Lore_Karth_River.md) called the [Great Arch](Lore_Great_Arch.md). From there the mountain continues west into the hold's outskirts until it meets the [Druadach Mountains](Lore_Druadach_Mountains.md), which forms the provincial border.

## Mountain Watch
[Mountain Watch](Lore_Mountain_Watch.md) is a settlement located in the mountains of [County Cheydinhal](Lore_County_Cheydinhal.md), in the province of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). Mountain Watch is a village populated by farmers, hunters, and people of varying ages, and comprised ten homes centered around a dirt square and a well. The road to [Cheydinhal](Lore_Cheydinhal.md) is a weathered, dirt trail that is hard for wagons to travel downhill.

## Mournhold
[Mournhold](Lore_Mournhold.md) (also known as **Mourning Hold**) is one of the eight major cities on the mainland of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md), located in the heart of the [Deshaan](Lore_Deshaan.md) region. The city is perhaps the largest and potentially oldest in Morrowind, and the district seat of the [Great House Indoril](Lore_House_Indoril.md), staunch followers of Dunmer faith and firm believers in preserving their native culture. It is also the epicenter of Dunmer religion, where the [Tribunal Temple](Lore_Tribunal_Temple.md) reigned over the province until they were replaced by the [New Temple](Lore_New_Temple.md).

The author [Enric Milres](Lore_Enric_Milres.md) described the city as "dark and brooding", but to others, it is noted for its grand vastness and majestic architecture. For many years, it was the home of [Almalexia](Lore_Almalexia.md), one of the [Tribunal](Lore_Tribunal.md) god-kings of Morrowind. As her holy city, it attracted pilgrims and temple priests to her palace, [Mournhold Temple](Lore_Mournhold_Temple.md). Both the city and the greater one that surrounds it are known as **[Almalexia](#The_City_of_Almalexia_and_Mournhold.27s_environs)**. For much of the Dunmer's history, Mournhold had been the capital of Morrowind until the early [Fourth Era](Lore_Fourth_Era.md), when it was moved to [Blacklight](Lore_Blacklight.md). The city is known by many titles, such as the **City of Light and Magic**, the **City of Gems**, and the **City of Love and Charity**.

## Mournhold Temple
[Mournhold Temple](Lore_Mournhold_Temple.md) (sometimes called the **Tribunal Temple**, the **Tribunal Palace**, or the **High Temple**) was the home of [Almalexia](Lore_Almalexia.md). It is situated in the center of a large and decorative courtyard, which lies at the northern end of [Mournhold](Lore_Mournhold.md), within the city of [Almalexia](Lore_Almalexia_(city).md).

It served as a center of worship for the [Tribunal](Lore_Tribunal.md), as well as an administrative center for the [Temple](Lore_Tribunal_Temple.md) itself. The temple is connected to the underground ruins of [Old Mournhold](Lore_Old_Mournhold.md) through the temple sewers. [Barilzar's Mazed Band](Lore_Barilzar%27s_Mazed_Band.md) has the ability to teleport the wearer directly to Mournhold Temple.

During the time of the [Ebonheart Pact](Lore_Ebonheart_Pact.md), the temple displays were quite multicultural, with [Argonian](Lore_Argonian.md) and [Nord](Lore_Nord.md) relics placed alongside [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md). In [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), the temple was invaded by [Daedra](Lore_Daedra.md) due to a Maulborn plot to overthrow the Tribunal and return the Dunmer to Daedra worship. With Almalexia powerless to act directly, she depended on the [Vestige](Lore_The_Vestige.md) to use the power of the Tribunal to clear the complex of invaders. Almalexia disappeared from the temple in [3E 427](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_427), when she teleported to the [Clockwork City](Lore_Clockwork_City.md) and was slain by the [Nerevarine](Lore_Nerevarine.md).

The temple survived the [Argonian Invasion](Lore_Accession_War.md) of Mournhold, as well as the general population's disillusionment with the Tribunal following the [Red Year](Lore_Red_Year.md). However, the last vestiges of Almalexia's presence were being removed by the [New Temple](Lore_New_Temple.md) almost two hundred years later. Around [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201), they added a new sanctuary. [House Indoril](Lore_House_Indoril.md) had to erect a large building in [Plaza Brindisi Dorom](Lore_Plaza_Brindisi_Dorom.md) to house the many new priests and pilgrims who had come to visit.

## Mournoth
[Mournoth](Lore_Mournoth.md) is a region in eastern [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md), within the [Bangkorai](Lore_Bangkorai.md) region. It borders [Gavaudon](Lore_Gavaudon.md) to the west, [Ephesus](Lore_Ephesus.md) to the south, [Wrothgar](Lore_Wrothgar.md) to the north, and [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md) of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) to the east. The region contains the city of [Evermore](Lore_Evermore.md). The most important landmarks are the [Halcyon Lake](Lore_Halcyon_Lake.md) on the [Bjoulsae River](Lore_Bjoulsae_River.md), [Murcien's Hamlet](Lore_Murcien%27s_Hamlet.md), Jackdaw Cove, the Viridian Woods, and the [Viridian Lake](Lore_Viridian_Lake.md).

Mournoth used to belong to the [Reachmen](Lore_Reachmen.md) as part of the [Western Reach](Lore_Western_Reach.md), and they often tried to reclaim it, along with the city of Evermore and settlement of Murcien's Hamlet, which had mixed Breton and Reachfolk population. One such attempt happened in [2E 541](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_541), when [Durcorach the Black Drake](Lore_Durcorach.md) captured the whole of Bangkorai. Another attempt took place in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), when the armies of Reachmen under the [Hagraven](Lore_Hagraven.md) Uela captured the northeastern Mournoth and threatened to attack Evermore. The Reachmen were eventually driven away, and Uela was killed.

## Mudan
The [Mudan Ruins](Lore_Mudan.md) (also known as the **Mudan Grotto**) are a sunken [Dwarven ruin](Lore_Dwemer_Ruins.md) amidst the [Ascadian Isles](Lore_Ascadian_Isles.md) of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md), within the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md).

## Mundus
The [Mundus](Lore_Mundus.md), also called the **Gray Maybe**, or the **Mundex Terrene**, is the plane or realm of existence that comprises [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md), the mortal planet. Some sources use the terms *Nirn* and *Mundus* synonymously, though others describe Mundus as a more expansive structure which extends past Nirn itself and encompasses additional regions and [planes](Lore_Planes_of_Existence.md). The origin of Mundus is a matter shrouded in much ambiguity, and different creation myths propose different events leading to its creation. It is commonly thought to have been created during the [Dawn Era](Lore_Dawn_Era.md) by the [Aedra](Lore_Aedra.md) and [Magna Ge](Lore_Magna_Ge.md), based on [Lorkhan](Lore_Lorkhan.md)'s inspiration and, per some sources, [Magnus](Lore_Magnus_(god).md)' designs. Though other sources propose different origins, which include the mortal world being a direct creation of [Anu](Lore_Anu.md), or the core of the Mundus, Nirn, being a [deity](Lore_Gods.md) and one of the children of Ahnurr and [Fadomai](Lore_Padomay.md), the goddess Nirni. Some sources claim that the existence of Nirn and Mundus, normally impossible, was allowed to come into being through the power of the [Magna-Ge](Lore_Magna_Ge.md) [Londa-Vera](Lore_Londa-Vera.md), the Green Star, the embodiment of the feminine power of [magic](Lore_Magic.md) that exists everywhere and nowhere at once.

## Murcien's Hamlet
[Murcien's Hamlet](Lore_Murcien%27s_Hamlet.md) was a settlement located in [Mournoth](Lore_Mournoth.md), in northern Bangkorai, situated on the frontier between High Rock and the Reach. It was a humble settlement, with the majority of its residents engaged in the fishing industry. The hamlet included weavers and boat-builders who crafted small fishing smacks and coracles for river trade. They actively participated in river commerce. Its population had strong ties to both the [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md) and the [Bretons](Lore_Bretons.md). Throughout its history, Murcien's Hamlet exchanged hands between the Reachfolk and the Bretons, because of its location in the [Western Reach](Lore_Western_Reach.md). It was positioned to the north of Evermore and situated along the shoreline of [Halcyon Lake](Lore_Halcyon_Lake.md), north of the [Bjoulsae River](Lore_Bjoulsae_River.md).

## Murkmire
[Murkmire](Lore_Murkmire.md) is a coastal region in southern [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md) with access to [Oliis Bay](Lore_Oliis_Bay.md). The port city of [Lilmoth](Lore_Lilmoth.md) is located there. Murkmire is inhabited by both [Argonian](Lore_Argonian.md) and [Naga](Lore_Naga.md) tribes.

The Argonian tribes of Murkmire were claimed to be one of the three regions of Black Marsh that joined the [Ebonheart Pact](Lore_Ebonheart_Pact.md) at its founding in [2E 572](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_572) by [Heita-Meen](Lore_Heita-Meen.md) In truth, however, the remarks were more aspirational than descriptive, and though Pact envoys in Murkmire worked to add the region to the alliance, it remained autonomous as of [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582). Murkmire's lack of a central authority likewise complicated the matter.

In [4E 48](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_48) the floating city of [Umbriel](Lore_Umbriel.md) passed over the region after being summoned by the [An-Xileel](Lore_An-Xileel.md) of Lilmoth, killing all inhabitants below and resurrecting them as undead soldiers under Umbriel's command.

## Murkwood
[Murkwood](Lore_Murkwood.md) is the legendary "dark forest that ever moves", located deep in the swamps of [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md). It is specifically located on a river, northeast of [Blackrose](Lore_Blackrose.md) and west of Seaspring.

The [Conclave of Baal](Lore_Conclave_of_Baal.md), an organization based in [Stormhold](Lore_Stormhold.md), can find the current location of the forest by reading the [Elder Scrolls](Lore_Elder_Scrolls.md) with the aid of an ancient tablet. Murkwood was used by [Jagar Tharn](Lore_Jagar_Tharn.md) as a hiding place for one piece of the [Staff of Chaos](Lore_Staff_of_Chaos.md) during the [Imperial Simulacrum](Lore_Imperial_Simulacrum.md). The [Eternal Champion](Lore_Eternal_Champion.md) retrieved this piece on their quest to save [Emperor Uriel Septim VII](Lore_Uriel_Septim_VII.md).

The forest is home to many [Medusas](Lore_Medusa.md). [Argonian](Lore_Argonian.md) farmers trade sacks of [fellrunner](Lore_Fellrunner.md) feathers with hunters. Just a single armband crafted from the pale down of a Fellrunner enables hunters to stealthily navigate the swamps of Murkwood without being detected.

## Myrkwasa
[Myrkwasa](Lore_Myrkwasa.md) is a region in western [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), in the [Alik'r Desert](Lore_Alik%27r_Desert.md). It borders the [Hollow Wastes](Lore_Hollow_Wastes.md) to the east. The region contains the city of [Sentinel](Lore_Sentinel.md). The most important places are the [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) ruin [Salas En](Lore_Salas_En.md), the [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md) ruin [Santaki](Lore_Santaki.md), and the great necropolis of [Tu'whacca's Throne](Lore_Tu%27whacca%27s_Throne.md).

In [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), the [Ash'abah](Lore_Ash%27abah.md) had a camp in the southern part of the region.

## Myrkwasa (fiefdom)
[Myrkwasa](Lore_Myrkwasa_(fiefdom).md) is a region in northwestern [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md), in the greater [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md) region of northwest [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). It is divided by the arid, desert region further into the mainland and the tropical wet-dry climate of the coast, where a sparse grassland laden most of the province's shore.

## Mzahnch
[Mzahnch](Lore_Mzahnch.md) is a [Dwarven ruin](Lore_Dwemer_Ruins.md) located in the [Ascadian Isles](Lore_Ascadian_Isles.md) region of the isle of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md) in the province of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md), east of [Ald Sotha](Lore_Ald_Sotha.md). It was abandoned in [1E 700](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_700) when its original [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md) inhabitants mysteriously disappeared.

As of [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582) the ruins of Mzahnch were allegedly used as a hideout by skooma dealers. Constable Mirel of [Suran](Lore_Suran.md) went missing and was ultimately killed during the investigation of the ruins. His corpse was found looted. The fatal wound was caused by the dagger of [Khajiit](Lore_Khajiit.md) design.

As of [3E 427](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_427) its interior was guarded by the [Dwarven Centurions](Lore_Dwarven_Centurion.md). [Kresh Fiber](Lore_Kresh_Fiber.md), [Gold Kanet](Lore_Gold_Kanet.md) and [Black Lichen](Lore_Black_Lichen.md) could be found in the ruin and on the island.

## Mzund
[Mzund](Lore_Mzund.md) is a [Dwemer ruin](Lore_Dwemer_Ruins.md). Its exact location is unknown, though it was no further than eighteen days' travel from [Arkngthamz](Lore_Arkngthamz.md). Mzund is known to contain an ancient [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md) library. It was abandoned in [1E 700](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_700) when its original Dwemer inhabitants [mysteriously disappeared](Lore_Dwemer.md#Disappearance_of_the_Dwemer).

## References
1. [^](#cite_ref-WAP_1-0) [*Words and Philosophy*](Lore_Words_and_Philosophy.md)
2. [^](#cite_ref-PGE1Sky_2-0) [*Pocket Guide to the Empire, 1st Edition: Skyrim*](Lore_Pocket_Guide_to_the_Empire,_1st_Edition_Skyrim.md) — [Imperial Geographical Society](Lore_Imperial_Geographical_Society.md), [2E 864](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_864)
3. [^](#cite_ref-YATSG_3-0) [*Yngol and the Sea-Ghosts*](Lore_Yngol_and_the_Sea-Ghosts.md)
4. [^](#cite_ref-Morrowind_4-0) Events of [*Morrowind*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Morrowind:Morrowind)