# Places L

[Overview](Lore_Places.md) | [A](Lore_Places_A.md) [B](Lore_Places_B.md) [C](Lore_Places_C.md) [D](Lore_Places_D.md) [E](Lore_Places_E.md) [F](Lore_Places_F.md) [G](Lore_Places_G.md) [H](Lore_Places_H.md) [I](Lore_Places_I.md) [J](Lore_Places_J.md) [K](Lore_Places_K.md) L [M](Lore_Places_M.md) [N](Lore_Places_N.md) [O](Lore_Places_O.md) [P](Lore_Places_P.md) [Q](Lore_Places_Q.md) [R](Lore_Places_R.md) [S](Lore_Places_S.md) [T](Lore_Places_T.md) [U](Lore_Places_U.md) [V](Lore_Places_V.md) [W](Lore_Places_W.md) [X](Lore_Places_X.md) [Y](Lore_Places_Y.md) [Z](Lore_Places_Z.md) | [Maps](Lore_Maps.md)
---

## Labyrinthian
[Labyrinthian](Lore_Labyrinthian.md) is an ancient [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) ruin located in [Hjaalmarch](Lore_Hjaalmarch.md), [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). The labyrinth for which the ruin gets its name was built sometime in the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md), but the ruins themselves are much older, having been the city of **Bromjunaar**, thought to have once been the capital of the [Dragon Cult](Lore_Dragon_Cult.md). Trading caravans occasionally pass through the ruins, although they often prefer safer, longer routes. The ruins of Lost Valkygg are located within the abandoned city.

## Lagomere
[Lagomere](Lore_Lagomere.md) is a region that consists of the central portion of [Deshaan](Lore_Deshaan.md), [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). Lagomere is home to the capital of [Great House](Lore_Great_House.md) [Indoril](Lore_Indoril.md), the city-state of [Mournhold](Lore_Mournhold.md), located within the greater city of [Almalexia](Lore_Almalexia_(city).md). The region also contains [Lake Amaya](Lore_Lake_Amaya_(Deshaan).md) and several [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md) ruins, including Bthanual and Mzithumz. The illustrious school of magic, [Shad Astula](Lore_Shad_Astula.md), was located in the region's northernmost reaches. Lagomere borders the regions of [Redolent Loam](Lore_Redolent_Loam.md) to the west, [Siltreen](Lore_Siltreen.md) to the east, and the [Reticulated Spine](Lore_Reticulated_Spine.md) to the south.

## Largashbur
[Largashbur](Lore_Largashbur.md) is an [Orc](Lore_Orcs.md) stronghold situated in [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) on the southern edge of the [Rift](Lore_The_Rift.md). It sits in a forest right at the northern edges of the [Jerall Mountains](Lore_Jerall_Mountains.md) at the Border between [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) and [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) .

## Lainlyn
[Lainlyn](Lore_Lainlyn.md) (formerly known as **Tava's Blessing**) is the capital of the eponymous [barony](Lore_Lainlyn_(barony).md) in south-central [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md), in the province of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md). It is a minor port city occupied by the [Crowns](Lore_Crowns.md), who normally hold territories in the north and east. Lainlyn is most well-known for its shipyards, which have supplied vessels for the [Kingdom of Sentinel](Lore_Sentinel_(kingdom).md)'s royal navy and [Daggerfall Covenant](Lore_Daggerfall_Covenant.md) in its heyday.

## Laintar Dale
[Laintar Dale](Lore_Laintar_Dale.md) is a historical settlement within the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). In the [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md) it was the site of a [Snow Elf](Lore_Snow_Elf.md) city called **Laidal**, which remains buried beneath the modern settlement.<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_nb1)</sup>

During the [Imperial Simulacrum](Lore_Imperial_Simulacrum.md) in the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), the village of Laintar Dale was an active settlement, being ruled by Lord Mojan. It had a rivalry with [Helarchen Creek](Lore_Helarchen_Creek.md). It was neighbored by several settlements, including Dunpar Wall to the west, Helarchen Creek to the northwest, [Amol](Lore_Amol.md) to the northeast, [Whiterun](Lore_Whiterun.md) to the southwest, [Dragon Wood](Lore_Dragon_Wood.md) to the east, and [Pargran Village](Lore_Pargran_Village.md) to the southeast. As of then it also had road connections to Whiterun, [Windhelm](Lore_Windhelm.md), and Amol.

## Larsius River
The [Larsius River](Lore_Larsius_River.md) is a fairly short river that rises just on the [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md) side of the border with [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) and flows north, then east, past the city of [Bravil](Lore_Bravil.md) to enter [Niben Bay](Lore_Niben_Bay.md). At this confluence are fetid lowland swamps, teeming with insects and rank with sewage runoff from the city.

## Leki's Blade
[Leki's Blade](Lore_Leki%27s_Blade.md) is an outpost in the [Alik'r Desert](Lore_Alik%27r_Desert.md), built in the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md) around a shrine to the eponymous [goddess](Lore_Leki.md). The [large statue of an upraised blade](Lore_Statues_Other_Statues.md#Leki.27s_Blade) gives the town its name, and serves as a landmark for travelers making their pilgrimage to the venerated site. A prestigious temple, said to have been founded by the last of the [Ansei](Lore_Ansei.md), instructs students in the ways of the sword, as well as the mind.

[Redguards](Lore_Redguard.md) of all ages and skill seek tutelage there, under the watchful gaze of their sword-singer ancestors. Admission into the school is strict, and students are not allowed to even hold a sword until they learn about its history. Said to be the swordsmen's most holy site, only those who have endured a proving can learn from masters.

## Leyawiin
[Leyawiin](Lore_Leyawiin.md) is a [Nibenese](Lore_Nibenay.md) city in the extreme southeast of the province, by the mouth of the [Niben River](Lore_Niben_River.md) where it opens into [Topal Bay](Lore_Topal_Bay.md). Known as the city that spans the waters, the city straddles a swampy estuary of the Niben on the small strip of land between [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md) and [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md) called the [Trans-Niben](Lore_Trans-Niben.md). Leyawiin is roughly divided into four districts: Chapel District, Guild Plaza, Main Street and [Castle Leyawiin](Lore_Castle_Leyawiin.md).

The ancient symbol of Leyawiin is a white [horse](Lore_Horse.md) on a field of green, known variously as the Ivory Horse or the White Stallion. The origin of the city's Ivory Horse symbol is unknown. One tradition believes it to be associated with the ancient hero [Pelinal Whitestrake](Lore_Pelinal_Whitestrake.md). Another states that in the days of myth, Leyawiin was home to a shining white horse of divine strength and beauty who protected the river's banks.

[Topal the Pilot](Lore_Topal.md) is the [patron saint](Lore_Imperial_Saints.md) of the city, and a statue of him can be found by the southwest wall.

## Library of Andule
The [Library of Andule](Lore_Library_of_Andule.md) is a library located in the [Molag Amur](Lore_Molag_Amur.md) region of [Vvardenfell](Lore_Vvardenfell.md) which was once used by the [Great Houses](Lore_Great_Houses.md) of the High Velothi culture to store their knowledge. The place contained wards to defend it from intruders and the ones that wanted to pass through them had to pass a test that demanded their trust in Prophet [Veloth](Lore_Veloth.md), following a path that simulated the ancestral exodus of the Velothi from [Summerset](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md) to [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). Information contained within the location described genealogy and old details that could reveal ancient ancestral connections which were highly sought after. The library was protected by wards, challenges, and ancestral spirits representing the [Dres](Lore_Dres.md), [Indoril](Lore_Indoril.md), [Redoran](Lore_Redoran.md), and [Hlaalu](Lore_Hlaalu.md) houses.

## Lightless Oubliette
The [Lightless Oubliette](Lore_Lightless_Oubliette.md) is tower built in emulation of the [White-Gold Tower](Lore_White-Gold_Tower.md) that functions as a prison. It was built to primarily house entities who can manipulate light to magical ends. It is surrounded by ruins and [azure plasm](Lore_Azure_Plasm.md), and is filled with Daedra and Soul Shriven. Further inside is an area known as the Lightless Cell. [Morian Zenas](Lore_Morian_Zenas.md) described seeing the tower spattered with blood and excrement.

[Laloriaran Dynar](Lore_Laloriaran_Dynar.md) was imprisoned here for millennia, until being freed by the [Vestige](Lore_The_Vestige.md) in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582).

## Lillandril
[Lillandril](Lore_Lillandril.md) is one of the eight major cities in the province of the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md), situated on the western hills of the [Summerset Isle](Lore_Summerset_Isle.md). The city is known for scholarly pursuits, various institutes such as the [College of Sapiarchs](Lore_College_of_Sapiarchs.md) and the Illumination Academy were both found in vicinity of the coastal-town. The city's symbol is the [Flask of Lillandril](Lore_Flask_of_Lillandril.md), an enchanted bottle that absorbs the magic used against the bearer. Despite its infamy, it has been embraced by the people as a cultural symbol.

## Lilmoth
[Lilmoth](Lore_Lilmoth.md) is one of the eight major cities in the province of [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md), serving as the most centralized settlement in the region of [Murkmire](Lore_Murkmire.md). Lilmoth is colloquially known as the "Festering Jewel of Black Marsh". It is a merchant city known for the sunken Imperial villas that were built during the [Second Empire](Lore_Second_Empire.md)'s hold over the region. Unlike other cities, Lilmoth has no centralized government, and is instead ruled by a council of powerful merchants.

## Lindai
[Lindai](Lore_Lindai.md) is an [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) ruin located far to the east of [Chorrol](Lore_Chorrol.md), deep in the [Great Forest](Lore_Great_Forest.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md).During the time of the Ayleids, Lindai was an independent city-state and a fierce rival of [Nenalata](Lore_Nenalata.md). The infamous Heretic of Lindai was from the city, and was seemingly a worshipper of [Auri-El](Lore_Auri-El.md). Following the [Alessian Slave Rebellion](Lore_Alessian_Slave_Rebellion.md), Lindai was abandoned and fell into ruin. Along with the Crown of Lindai, the last king of Lindai was entombed in the royal burial chamber, which was then sealed.

During the [Alliance War](Lore_Alliance_War.md) of [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), a squad of [Daggerfall Covenant](Lore_Daggerfall_Covenant.md) soldiers based in [Fort Glademist](Lore_Fort_Glademist.md) were ordered to clear the nearby Ayleid ruins, including Lindai, in search of enemy troops. However, Lindai had been taken over by a cell of [Shadowed Path](Lore_Shadowed_Path.md) cultists, who began raising the dead. Their efforts culminated in the creation of a [lich](Lore_Lich.md) to lead the cult, although it was destroyed by a passing soldier on behalf of [Weynon Priory](Lore_Weynon_Priory.md) before it could leave Lindai. The priests at Weynon henceforth kept a close eye on the ruins to prevent any further necromantic activity.

Circa [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433), an [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) scholar of the Ayleids named [Herminia Cinna](Lore_Herminia_Cinna.md) came into possession of a key which would unseal the royal burial chambers. When [Umbacano](Lore_Umbacano.md), an [Altmer](Lore_Altmer.md) collector of Ayleid antiquities, sent the [Hero of Kvatch](Lore_Hero.md) to buy the [Crown of Nenalata](Lore_Crown_of_Nenalata.md) from her, Cinna suggested that the Hero use the key to recover the Crown of Lindai instead. Cinna rightly feared Umbacano's ulterior motives, as he planned to use the Crown of Nenalata to restore the power of Ayleid civilization in Cyrodiil by proclaiming himself king in the throne room of Nenalata. Although Umbacano would be unable to distinguish between the two crowns, the magical enchantments in Nenalata's throne room would destroy anyone who would proclaim himself king while wearing the crown of their rivals. It is unknown which crown Umbacano was given before his fatal expedition to Nenalata, or indeed whether or not the Hero entered the undead-infested ruins of Lindai at all.

## Lion's Den
The [Lion's Den](Lore_Lion%27s_Den.md) (also known as **Steelhead Cleft**) is a mountain pass in the province of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), between the [Throat of the World](Lore_Throat_of_the_World.md) to the north and the [Jerall Mountains](Lore_Jerall_Mountains.md) to the south. Specifically, it directly branches eastern [Falkreath Hold](Lore_Falkreath_Hold.md), where modern-day [Helgen](Lore_Helgen.md) is located to western [Rift Hold](Lore_Rift_Hold.md), on the Great Riften Road intersection near Honeystrand Hill.

There are conflating stories of how the valley acquired its name. One story claims it was a historical breeding ground for local [mountain lions](Lore_Mountain_Lion.md), but another comes from the mid- [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), when the [Lion Guard](Lore_Lion_Guard.md) took it over. Many caves exist across the mountain pass, such as Giant's Crush, Haemar's Shame, and excavated tunnels created by the Lion Guard.

## Lipsand Tarn
[Lipsand Tarn](Lore_Lipsand_Tarn.md) (or **[Soapstone](Lore_Soapstone.md) Delve** in [Ayleidoon](Lore_Ayleidoon.md)) is an [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleids.md) ruin located high in the [Colovian Highlands](Lore_Colovian_Highlands.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). The locals of [Chorrol](Lore_Chorrol.md) know it as the **Elf Haunts**. It can be found in the Amber Woodland, far north of Chorrol and just west of the ancient city of [Sancre Tor](Lore_Sancre_Tor.md). At some point after the [Alessian Slave Rebellion](Lore_Alessian_Slave_Rebellion.md), the settlement at Lipsand Tarn fell into ruin. It earned a bad reputation with the locals of Chorrol, who knew to keep away from it.

During the [Alliance War](Lore_Alliance_War.md) of [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), the ruins were within the territory controlled by the invading [Daggerfall Covenant](Lore_Daggerfall_Covenant.md). As necromantic forces began to stir throughout Cyrodiil, a [vampire](Lore_Vampire.md) from [Wayrest](Lore_Wayrest.md) known as Gaston Ashham established himself in the ruins with a fellow vampire named Marbita, while his sister Raelynne Ashham journeyed to [Underpall Cave](Lore_Underpall_Cave.md). The siblings were pursued by a man named Leobert Charien, who tracked Gaston to Lipsand Tarn only to find the ruins swarming with undead. Gaston had awakened some evil power within the ruins, and Charien was slain attempting to kill him. Gaston then went about raising powerful undead and quickly created a vampire coven. However, the priests at [Weynon Priory](Lore_Weynon_Priory.md) sent soldiers to Lipsand Tarn to burn the corpses of two villagers who had been abducted by the vampires, and the coven leaders were killed in the process.

By [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433), the ruins had once again become a vampire den.

## Lone Mountain
[Lone Mountain](Lore_Lone_Mountain.md) is an inselberg found in the dead center of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md)'s [Tundra Plain](Lore_Tundra_Plain.md) that stands as the only mountain in the region. The mountain is considered part of [Whiterun Hold](Lore_Whiterun_Hold.md) and is found close to [Fort Greymoor](Lore_Fort_Greymoor.md) and a dragon mound. It is an oddity among the province's peaks, most of which are part of larger ranges. The closest mountain ranges are the [Skyborn Range](Lore_Skyborn_Range.md) to the north and [Brittleshin Hills](Lore_Brittleshin_Hills.md) to the south. The [River Hjaal](Lore_River_Hjaal.md) runs to the north side.

## Longhaven
[Longhaven](Lore_Longhaven.md) is a small settlement found on the edge of the [Drowned Coast](Lore_Drowned_Coast.md), in the province of [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md). The village lies just down the road from [Woodhearth](Lore_Woodhearth.md) and purveys over the Shademist Moors and other surrounding wild wetlands. A local children's tale is spread around town about the [Wild Witch of Shademist](Lore_Witches.md), a master [brewer](Lore_Alchemy.md) that can create potions to cure any ailment, but with [magic](Lore_Magic.md), her hovel appears and disappears on a whim to the point she has become a master in the art of hiding.

## Lorais River
The [Lorais River](Lore_Lorais_River.md) is a waterway in [Daenia](Lore_Daenia.md) that flows from the cliffs of [Daggerfall](Lore_Daggerfall.md) eastward into the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md). It runs through the whole city and is home to fish such as [Brook Trouts](Lore_Brook_Trout.md), [Catfish](Lore_Catfish.md), and [Warmouths](Lore_Warmouth.md). The main source starts in the mountains next to Daggerfall Castle, flowing through the Trade District and reaching Daggerfall's eastern gates. The other tributary starts at the waterfall at Baelborne Rock and flows south besides The Lady stone and Ilessan Tower to meet the rest of the stream, forming a small island and wrapping around to combine into one stream flowing east. The estuary of the river flows out into the ocean to the east, powering Deleyn's Mill. It is said that the river sings as it passes through Daggerfall, and those who listen closely can hear the music.

## Lord Rugdumph's Estate
[Lord Rugdumph's Estate](Lore_Lord_Rugdumph%27s_Estate.md) (historically called **Shurgak Clan Estate**) is a settlement located in White Fall Valley, in the [Valus Mountains](Lore_Valus_Mountains.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md). It is connected to [Cheydinhal](Lore_Cheydinhal.md) to the south via minor roads.

In the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), Shurgak Clan Estate was a wealthy [Orc](Lore_Orc.md) stronghold, possessing both a traditional fortified encampment and a [Breton](Lore_Breton.md) -style manor house. During the [Alliance War](Lore_Alliance_War.md) of [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), the estate was initially within the territory controlled by the [Ebonheart Pact](Lore_Ebonheart_Pact.md), although the area changed hands many times over the course of the war. The estate was ruled by Warchief Azgarub, and was an entirely Orcish settlement. The Shurgak Clan was hostile to outsiders, and even servants would attack trespassers on sight. Azgarub was killed that year, and a raider named Krodak planned to loot the manor for treasure.

By [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433), the estate had been inherited by an Orc noble named Lord Rugdumph gro-Shurgak, from whom the estate got its current name. It consisted of a farm and servants quarters, as well as a manor house built in the Cheydinhal style, with influences from [Dunmer](Lore_Dunmer.md) architecture. That year, Rugdumph's daughter Lady Rogbut gra-Shurgak was kidnapped by [ogres](Lore_Ogre.md). She was rescued by the local Cheydinhal [Fighters Guild](Lore_Fighters_Guild.md) branch.

## Lost Valley Redoubt
[Lost Valley Redoubt](Lore_Lost_Valley_Redoubt.md) is an ancient sacred site of the [Reachfolk](Lore_Reachfolk.md), later turned into a [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) barrow within the eponymous river valley of [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md). It holds a particular significance for the [Ghostsong Clan](Lore_Ghostsong_Clan.md) and for those who venerate [Namira](Lore_Namira.md), the Spirit Queen. In the depths of the ruins lies a series of ancient Reach caverns called the **Dark Descent**, which according to legend, is an abyss that bridges the lands of the living and the dead. The **Bard's Leap** is the summit of the mountain and water source for the [Karth River](Lore_Karth_River.md). It is a steep drop to the river down below and it is somewhat of a local tradition to jump off of it.

## Loth'Na Caverns
[Loth'Na Caverns](Lore_Loth%27Na_Caverns.md) (or **Loth' Na Caverns**) are a series of dozens of small caves in the [Craglorn](Lore_Craglorn.md) region of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md). Entrances exist both west and northeast of [Dragonstar](Lore_Dragonstar.md).

## Lover's Lament
[Lover's Lament](Lore_Lover%27s_Lament.md) (or **Lovers Lament**) is a lake located somewhere on [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). The deserted castle of Gerthland Manor is located nearby, as is the Boar's Bristle Inn.

The lake is named for the [ghosts](Lore_Ghost.md) of Lord Gerthland and Lady Madylina, who appear at the shore each night. According to local townsfolk, the ghosts were two lovers whose [souls](Lore_Souls.md) were cursed by Hergen, Gerthland Manor's resident sorcerer. Legend states that Hergen lusted after Lady Madylina when Gerthland went off to war, but he was rebuked. After Lord Gerthland died in battle, Madylina committed suicide, and Hergen cursed them both to restless [undeath](Lore_Undead.md) until Madylina would agree to become his consort in death. Instead, the ghosts of the two lovers meet each night on the shores of the lake; Madylina can be seen approaching the shore from the castle with a lantern in hand, while Gerthland rises from the water's depths in full armor. At dawn, the lovers depart, leaving behind two roses which are soon lapped away by the ripples of the lake. Hergen is said to still wander the deserted halls of Gerthland Manor, hoping that Madylina will one day agree to his demands.

## Lunar Forge
The [Lunar Forge](Lore_Lunar_Forge.md) is a forge with special properties built on top of the **Silent Moons Camp**, a [Nordic](Lore_Nord.md) ruin located northwest of [Whiterun](Lore_Whiterun.md).

Little is known of the history of the forge or the ruins. The forge was set up on top of the ruin, at some point after the ruined buildings were constructed. It was set up in close proximity to [moonstone](Lore_Moonstone.md) and [gold](Lore_Gold.md) ore veins. As of [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201), Silent Moons Camp served as a hideout for bandits, who conspired against Jarl [Balgruuf the Greater](Lore_Balgruuf_the_Greater.md) and planned his assassination. They were stopped by the [Last Dragonborn](Lore_Last_Dragonborn.md), who killed the assassin and claimed their [Bow of Shadows](Lore_Bow_of_Shadows.md).

Although the [weapons](Lore_Weapons.md) [crafted](Lore_Smithing.md) in the Lunar Forge were made from mundane metals, they possessed unique properties. Those weapons were known as the **Lunar Weapons**. Although they were not [enchanted](Lore_Enchanting.md) through the traditional means, they possessed innate magical abilities likened to an enchantment. Though those powers were connected to the appearance of the [moons](Lore_Moons.md) in the sky, their secret remained elusive. Some sources claimed that Lunar Weapons possess a "[vampire](Lore_Vampirism.md) -like" ability to drain a small amount of health from the victim to the wielder, but those weapons were in fact known for their light-based powers, which burned those struck by them. Those powers worked only when the moons were seen in the night sky.

## Lyg
According to the teachings of [Mankar Camoran](Lore_Mankar_Camoran.md), [Lyg](Lore_Lyg.md) was ruled by the [dreugh](Lore_Dreugh.md) in the [Dawn Era](Lore_Dawn_Era.md). The tyrannical dreugh-kings enslaved the "nineteen and nine and nine" oceans of Lyg and fought constant border wars among themselves. This correlates with the teachings of the [Tribunal Temple](Lore_Tribunal_Temple.md), which state that [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md) had served as the chief of the dreughs in a form that was "spiny and armored and made for the sea", the after-image of which was reborn in [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) and known as the [Ruddy Man](Lore_Ruddy_Man.md).

[Mehrunes Dagon](Lore_Mehrunes_Dagon.md) is said to have been created and imbued with hope by the [Magna Ge](Lore_Magna_Ge.md) in the bowels of Lyg. Dagon then raised a "red legion" in rebellion and destroyed the [Towers](Lore_The_Towers.md) of CHIM-EL GHARJYG, casting down its cities and destroying the continent. In this way, Dagon "freed" [Nirn](Lore_Nirn.md) from Creation. This story coincides with the teaching of pre-ri'Datta Khajiit Priest Amun-Dro, which states that before the creation of the world, the Demon Cat Dagon (also called Merrunz) fell to the Demon King Molagh within the Great Darkness, where he was imprisoned and tortured until the wife of Molagh freed Merrunz and used his destructive nature as a weapon to assault the Lattice. Replicating this mythic event was the main goal of Camoran's [Oblivion Crisis](Lore_Oblivion_Crisis.md) in [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433), when he succeeded in temporarily breaking [Akatosh](Lore_Akatosh.md)'s covenant, destroying the [Crystal Tower](Lore_Crystal_Tower.md), and bringing Dagon to [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md).

## Lynpar March
[Lynpar March](Lore_Lynpar_March.md) (also called **Lynpan March**) is a region and later a settlement located in the southeast area of [Valenwood](Lore_Valenwood.md), east of the city-state, [Elden Root](Lore_Elden_Root.md).