# Architects Guild

The Architects Guild (also called the **Architectural Guild**)<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-ASSR-1)</sup> is an officially sanctioned guild that has been active since at least the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). As their name implies, they employ architects from across the [Empire](Lore_Empire.md).<sup>[[2]](#cite_note-HOTFG-2)</sup> One of the only known positions in the guild is the Chief Surveyor, who assists clients by checking if the land is suitable for construction, or by examining damage that the building acquired over time.<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-ASSR-1)</sup> Another role within the guild is recognized as the Master Architect, and one such individual held a profound interest in the study of [Orcish](Lore_Orc.md) architecture.<sup>[[3]](#cite_note-Homestead Int-3)</sup>

During the [Akaviri Potentate](Lore_Akaviri_Potentate.md) in [2E 321](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_321), [Versidue-Shaie](Lore_Versidue-Shaie.md) gave his approval for the [Guild Act](Lore_Guild_Act.md), which sanctioned businesses such as the Architects Guild. They were hence protected by the Empire of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), even into the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md), but would be required to pay them if they wanted to expand their influence. The Empire had subsequently strengthened since the Guild Act was passed.<sup>[[2]](#cite_note-HOTFG-2)</sup> The Chief Surveyor of the [Daggerfall](Lore_Daggerfall.md) branch, Tarnolvar, was hired by Lady [Ingerien Direnni](Lore_Ingerien_Direnni.md) to survey her abode, Castle Thorn, located in the hinterlands of [Karthald](Lore_Karthald.md) in [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md). Tarnolvar was privy to Lady Thorn's condition as a [vampire](Lore_Vampire.md), but continued his service anyway.<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-ASSR-1)</sup>

The Architects Guild, akin to the [Mages Guild](Lore_Mages_Guild.md), upholds the principles of neutrality in the midst of inter-province or inter-alliance conflicts. Operating under the aegis of the Architects Guild, their housing brokerages pledged to conduct their affairs without political bias, earning the trust of local governments. This authorization granted them the ability to facilitate property sales to foreign citizens across the Alliances, even during the [Three Banners War](Lore_Three_Banners_War.md).<sup>[[3]](#cite_note-Homestead Int-3)</sup>

## References
1. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-ASSR_1-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-ASSR_1-1)***</sup><sup>***[c](#cite_ref-ASSR_1-2)***</sup> [*Architectural Survey Summary Report*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Architectural_Survey_Summary_Report) — [Tarnolvar](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Tarnolvar), Chief Surveyor of the Architectural Guild, Daggerfall Branch
2. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-HOTFG_2-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-HOTFG_2-1)***</sup> [*History of the Fighters Guild*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:History_of_the_Fighters_Guild)
3. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-Homestead Int_3-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-Homestead Int_3-1)***</sup> [*Homestead Interview*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/General:Homestead_Interview) — [Canthion](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Canthion)