# People Z

[Overview](Lore_People.md) | [A](Lore_People_A.md) [B](Lore_People_B.md) [C](Lore_People_C.md) [D](Lore_People_D.md) [E](Lore_People_E.md) [F](Lore_People_F.md) [G](Lore_People_G.md) [H](Lore_People_H.md) [I](Lore_People_I.md) [J](Lore_People_J.md) [K](Lore_People_K.md) [L](Lore_People_L.md) [M](Lore_People_M.md) [N](Lore_People_N.md) [O](Lore_People_O.md) [P](Lore_People_P.md) [Q](Lore_People_Q.md) [R](Lore_People_R.md) [S](Lore_People_S.md) [T](Lore_People_T.md) [U](Lore_People_U.md) [V](Lore_People_V.md) [W](Lore_People_W.md) [X](Lore_People_X.md) [Y](Lore_People_Y.md) Z
---

#### Governor Zantonius (fl. [1E 2720](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_2720) - [1E 2729](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_2729))
[Zantonius](Lore_Zantonius.md) was the founder of [Southpoint](Lore_Southpoint.md) and its first [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) [Governor](Lore_Cyrodilic_Administration.md) during the late [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md). He oversaw the construction of the Cathedral of the Golden Path.

#### Zaraphus (fl. before 3E 389)
[Zaraphus](Lore_Zaraphus.md) was a [Demi-Lich](Lore_Lich.md) who possessed a special [diamond](Lore_Diamond.md) that had several magical properties including the ability to show the owner the location of the [Crystal Tower](Lore_Crystal_Tower.md). It is unknown how Zaraphus obtained this gem but he was relieved of it when he was defeated in fair combat by the [Mages Guild](Lore_Mages_Guild.md) Loremaster Corim Ashlen.<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-ARCorim-1)</sup>

#### Queen Za-Rifah al-Danobia (fl. Second Era)
[Za-Rifah al-Danobia](Lore_Za-Rifah_al-Danobia.md), the **Flower of Taneth** was a [Redguard](Lore_Redguard.md) noblewoman and the Queen of [Sentinel](Lore_Sentinel_(kingdom).md) active in the mid- [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md).

#### Mane Zebiden-jo (fl. c. [2E 182](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_182))
[Zebiden-jo](Lore_Zebiden-jo.md) (or **Zibbiden-jo**) was the [Mane](Lore_Mane.md) of the [Khajiiti](Lore_Khajiit.md) people during the early [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), before the unification of the Sixteen Kingdoms. Little is known about Zebiden-jo's life. However, during his trials to become the Mane circa [2E 182](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_182), it is known that he faced the spirit of one of his parents, as well as [Argonian](Lore_Argonian.md) soul reavers. These trials reflect the challenges faced by a Mane before their ascension.

He died at some point prior to the unification of Elsweyr and the formation of the Elsweyr Confederacy in [2E 309](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_309). His remains are preserved in the Tomb of the Manes in [Rimmen](Lore_Rimmen.md) Necropolis, a huge tomb complex located southwest of Rimmen itself. He was buried together with two other prominent Manes, [Jinninji-ri](Lore_Jinninji-ri.md) and [Tullar-dra](Lore_Tullar-dra.md). His spirit's rest was briefly interrupted in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582) when [the Vestige](Lore_The_Vestige.md) escorted the remains of the ancient Khajiiti ruler Jora-ri to the burial chamber in the Tomb of the Manes.

#### Zinfara (fl. Middle Merethic Era)
[Zinfara](Lore_Zinfara.md) was a legendary figure from the oral traditions of the [Nedic](Lore_Nede.md) [Duraki](Lore_Duraki.md) tribe, dating back to the middle [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md). They were credited as the first person to be taught by [Shezarr](Lore_Shezarr.md) how to harness the power of [nirncrux](Lore_Nirncrux.md).

#### Grandee Zizzeen (fl. c. [2E 566](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_566))
[Grandee Zizzeen](Lore_Zizzeen.md) was a nobleman from [Antiphyllos](Lore_Antiphyllos.md) during the mid- [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). He was related to [Fahara'jad](Lore_Fahara%27jad.md) and his mother Grandeya Fanesh, who both were [Forebears](Lore_Forebears.md), whereas Zizzeen was a [Crown](Lore_Crowns.md). Zizzeen was called a meritorious man of "most august memory". The poet Behrouz said that his rectitude was so high that when he accidentally entered a women's bath house, he "forthwith put out both his eyes, lest he commit an indecency". When King [Ramzi the Distrait](Lore_Ramzi_the_Distrait.md) of Sentinel died while Hammerfell was being ravaged by the [Knahaten Flu](Lore_Knahaten_Flu.md), Zizzeen attempted to usurp the throne and was supported by the Crowns, but later lost to Fahara'jad.

#### Zoreh the Tenacious (fl. before 2E 582)
[Zoreh the Tenacious](Lore_Zoreh_the_Tenacious.md) was a [Redguard](Lore_Redguard.md) hero best remembered for saving the city of [Bergama](Lore_Bergama.md). Long ago, a sickness spread through the city and incapacitated much of the population. A warlord named Emeesh Poison-Tongue learned of this sickness, and sent a band of marauders to rob the weakened city of its wealth. Although she too was afflicted by the sickness, Zoreh stood guard alone. She knew that the marauder's numbers were too great for her alone, so she devised a plan to trick them into thinking the illness had passed and that the city's defenders were ready. She ran across Bergama and lit every signal fire, lighting up the city.

This heroic act rallied the city's sick defenders. They took the field, and although Emeesh's marauders panicked and attempted to flee, they were all killed. Ultimately, Zoreh died later that night from the illness, but her memory lived on. Every year, at the [New Life Festival](Lore_New_Life_Festival.md), the citizens of Bergama honor her sacrifice with a race to light up several signal fires throughout the city.

#### Zumog Phoom (d. 2E 582)
[Zumog Phoom](Lore_Zumog_Phoom.md), **Lord of the Dark Arts**, was a necromancer who served [Queen Euraxia](Lore_Euraxia_Tharn.md) of [House Tharn](Lore_House_Tharn.md) as her court wizard during the [Euraxians'](Lore_Euraxians.md) attempted conquest of [Elsweyr](Lore_Elsweyr.md), being the chief necromancer of his queen's gravecallers. A key part of his scheme was to fully resurrect [Cadwell the Betrayer](Lore_Cadwell.md) (an evil Nedic knight from the [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md)) and use him as an wartime ally—a special military operation which Phoom was in charge of conducting.

#### Zurin Arctus (?b - [3E 417](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_417)?)
[Zurin Arctus](Lore_Zurin_Arctus.md) (also known as **the [Underking](Lore_Underking.md)**, or by his [Breton](Lore_Breton.md) name **Arnand the Fox**) was a [human](Lore_Man.md) spellcaster active during the late [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), who served as the [Imperial Battlemage of Tamriel](Lore_Imperial_Battlemage_of_Tamriel.md) under Emperor [Tiber Septim](Lore_Tiber_Septim.md). He was instrumental in the activation of [Numidium](Lore_Numidium.md), a colossal construct of [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md) origin, used by the Emperor in his conquest of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md), by channeling his own "heart"—his life force—into a massive soul gem called the [Mantella](Lore_Mantella.md). Arctus would later come to regret this act and ultimately destroyed the automaton, but he was killed in the process before he could reclaim his heart. He later returned as an undead being known as the Underking, though *[The Arcturian Heresy](Lore_The_Arcturian_Heresy.md)* instead attributes the title to [Ysmir Kingmaker](Lore_Wulfharth.md). In children's tales, the Underking was portrayed as a fearsome old bugbear who was believed to be the most powerful mage to ever live. In [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), Zurin was also occasionally associated with the mage-god [Magnus](Lore_Magnus.md).

#### Zuuk (fl. 1E 2920 - 2E 1st century)
**Lord** [Zuuk](Lore_Zuuk_(person).md), also known as the **Lord Founder**, was a [Kothringi](Lore_Kothringi.md) originating from the [Black Marsh](Lore_Black_Marsh.md) active at the end of the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md) and beginning of the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). He was a loyal servant, [knight](Lore_Knights.md) and confidant of [Empress Tavia](Lore_Tavia.md). He founded the Kothringi settlement [Zuuk](Lore_Zuuk_(place).md) in the region of [Shadowfen](Lore_Shadowfen.md).

#### Zyrcifel, Daedric Prince of Mathness
[Zyrcifel](Lore_Zyrcifel.md), the self-proclaimed **[Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Princes.md) of Mathness**, is a [Daedric](Lore_Daedra.md) servant of Lord [Sheogorath](Lore_Sheogorath.md), the Prince of Madness. He appears on [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) during failed summoning rituals, when Sheogorath's title is mispronounced as "mathness" instead of Madness. Zyrcifel is evidentially no true Daedric Prince; instead, he serves to torment mortals with endless mathematical questions. The only known method to free oneself of this curse is by sending Zyrcifel back to the [Shivering Isles](Lore_Shivering_Isles.md) via ritual banishment.

Zyrcifel appears dressed as a jester dressed in black and gold. He wears the Mask of Cheerful Slaughter, which displays the three faces of madness.

#### Magnifico Z'za (fl. Second Era)
[Magnifico Z'za](Lore_Z%27za.md), also known as the **Silent Magnifico**, was a noble of [Hammerfell](Lore_Hammerfell.md) who lived during the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md). Following the death of his daughter Haruzeh at the *Running of the Dunerippers*, the distraught Z'za retired to his house in [Sentinel](Lore_Sentinel.md) and never spoke again. He spent the last of his days playing a long series of hammergammon with his trained [monkey](Lore_Monkey.md) that was named "Lizard". He had a folding hammergammon board of precious wood inlays, complete with [ivory](Lore_Ivory.md) pieces and [jade](Lore_Jade.md) multiplier die. At some point after his death, his home was later put up for sale and tagged under his name, as houses formerly owned or occupied by celebrities are believed to generate more interest and therefore sell for higher prices.

## References
1. [^](#cite_ref-ARCorim_1-0) [Corim Ashlen](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Arena:Corim_Ashlen)'s dialogue in *[Arena](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Arena:Arena)*