# Religions

| **To meet our site's higher standard of quality, this article or section may require cleanup. ** **The user who placed this here had the following concern:** <br> Lack of references <br> To leave a message about the cleanup for this article, please add it to this article's [talk page](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore_talk:Religions). |
| --- |

| **This page or section is incomplete. You can help by adding to it.** <br> Expand the religion sections. <br> For more information, see the [help files](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Help:Contents), the [style guide](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/UESPWiki:Style_Guide), and this article's [talk page](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore_talk:Religions). |
| --- |

Religion is a common, but not universal, aspect of life in [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) and neighboring lands and planes. Religions usually center around a [being of worship](Lore_Gods.md), and normally focus on one or several specific [Aedra](Lore_Aedra.md) and [Daedra](Lore_Daedra.md). However, religions and cults sometimes focus on a demigod, saint, or even a mortal being (particularly their [ancestors](Lore_Ancestor_Worship.md)).

Many faiths are polytheist or henotheist, but there are examples of monotheist practices in Tamriel's history. The most notable one is the [Alessian Order](Lore_Alessian_Order.md), which centered around a singular god known as [The One](Lore_The_One.md). The divine beings of other religions became saints and spirits of the Order, to allow for easier sycretism and adoption of their faith structure.<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-PGE1S-1)</sup>

Among the most prominent religions in Tamriel include various branches of faiths dedicated to the [Divines](Lore_Divines.md), with the largest division in that faith centering around the [Eight Divines](Lore_Eight_Divines.md) and [Nine Divines](Lore_Nine_Divines.md). However, many localities will have their own variant on this faith structure. For example, the [Green Pact](Lore_Green_Pact.md) includes strict guidelines around diet and lifestyle, and involves numerous living beings as direct conduits. The [Nordic Religion](Lore_Religion.md#Nordic_Religion) has [Kyne](Lore_Kyne.md) as the head of their pantheon in the absence of the dead god [Shor](Lore_Shor.md), and has gone through numerous religious upheavals surrounding [Akatosh](Lore_Akatosh.md) and [Alduin](Lore_Alduin.md). The [Redguard Religion](Lore_Religions.md#Redguard_Religion) features a notable divide based off of political affiliation, with the [Crowns](Lore_Crowns.md) practicing a more traditional variant of their religion from [Yokuda](Lore_Yokuda.md), while the [Forebears](Lore_Forebears.md) practices are more aligned with Tamrielic orthodoxies. Despite this, both factions still share multiple deities. The [Breton Religion](Lore_Religion.md#Breton_Religion) includes the Eight Divines alongside deities they inherited from their [Aldmer](Lore_Aldmer.md) and [Nedic](Lore_Nede.md) ancestors such as [Sheor](Lore_Sheor.md), [Phynaster](Lore_Phynaster.md), [Y'ffre](Lore_Y%27ffre.md), and [Magnus](Lore_Magnus.md), as well as several other minor gods from the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md) region.

Daedric worship is the other most common religious practice in Tamriel. Many Daedric religious institutions are henotheist cults dedicated to a specific [Daedric Prince](Lore_Daedric_Prince.md), although there are faiths focused around lesser [Daedra](Lore_Daedra.md).

A particularly notable example of a religion comes from the [Tribunal Temple](Lore_Tribunal_Temple.md) of [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md). Their religious structure has switched between worshiping three Daedric Princes; [Azura](Lore_Azura.md), [Boethiah](Lore_Boethiah.md), and [Mephala](Lore_Mephala.md); for three living gods; [Almalexia](Lore_Almalexia.md), [Sotha Sil](Lore_Sotha_Sil.md), and [Vivec](Lore_Vivec.md); before ultimately switching back to the Daedric Princes after the death/disappearance of their living gods. Their religious structure also incorporates a pantheon of saints, ancestor worship, and includes the four Testing Gods – the Daedric Princes [Malacath](Lore_Malacath.md), [Mehrunes Dagon](Lore_Mehrunes_Dagon.md), [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md), and [Sheogorath](Lore_Sheogorath.md) – collectively known as the [House of Troubles](Lore_House_of_Troubles.md).

[Khajiit Religion](Lore_Khajiit_Religion.md) has evolved considerably over the years. Its most major adaption came from the [Riddle'Thar Epiphany](Lore_Riddle%27Thar_Epiphany.md), an adaption of their traditional faith structure into its more modern form by the prophet [Rid-Thar-ri'Datta](Lore_Rid-Thar-ri%27Datta.md).

[Argonian Religion](Lore_Religions.md#Argonian_Religion) centers around worship of the [Hist](Lore_Hist.md).

## The Eight Pantheons
Brother Mikhael Karkuxor of the Imperial College provided a basic summation of the overall belief structure of the major regions of Tamriel into eight pantheons, with the exclusion of one covering [Argonian](Lore_Argonian.md) beliefs due to issues with research in that area. These are:

[CYRODIIL](Lore_Cyrodiil.md): [Akatosh](Lore_Akatosh.md), [Dibella](Lore_Dibella.md), [Arkay](Lore_Arkay.md), [Zenithar](Lore_Zenithar.md), [Mara](Lore_Mara.md), [Stendarr](Lore_Stendarr.md), [Kynareth](Lore_Kynareth.md), [Julianos](Lore_Julianos.md), [Shezarr](Lore_Shezarr.md), [Tiber Septim](Lore_Tiber_Septim.md), [Morihaus](Lore_Morihaus.md), [Reman](Lore_Reman.md)

[SKYRIM](Lore_Skyrim.md): [Alduin](Lore_Alduin.md), [Dibella](Lore_Dibella.md), [Orkey](Lore_Orkey.md), [Tsun](Lore_Tsun.md), [Mara](Lore_Mara.md), [Stuhn](Lore_Stuhn.md), [Kyne](Lore_Kyne.md), [Jhunal](Lore_Jhunal.md), [Shor](Lore_Shor.md), [Ysmir](Lore_Ysmir.md), [Herma-Mora](Lore_Herma-Mora.md), [Mauloch](Lore_Mauloch.md)

[ALTMER](Lore_Altmer.md): [Auri-El](Lore_Auri-El.md), [Trinimac](Lore_Trinimac.md), [Magnus](Lore_Magnus.md), [Syrabane](Lore_Syrabane.md), [Y'ffre](Lore_Y%27ffre.md), [Xarxes](Lore_Xarxes.md), [Mara](Lore_Mara.md), [Stendarr](Lore_Stendarr.md), [Lorkhan](Lore_Lorkhan.md), [Phynaster](Lore_Phynaster.md)

[BOSMER](Lore_Bosmer.md): [Auri-El](Lore_Auri-El.md), [Y'ffre](Lore_Y%27ffre.md), [Arkay](Lore_Arkay.md), [Z'en](Lore_Z%27en.md), [Xarxes](Lore_Xarxes.md), [Baan Dar](Lore_Baan_Dar.md), [Mara](Lore_Mara.md), [Stendarr](Lore_Stendarr.md), [Lorkhan](Lore_Lorkhan.md), [Herma-Mora](Lore_Herma-Mora.md), [Jone](Lore_Jone.md), [Jode](Lore_Jode.md)

[DUNMER](Lore_Dunmer.md): [Almalexia](Lore_Almalexia.md), [Vivec](Lore_Vivec.md), [Sotha Sil](Lore_Sotha_Sil.md), [Boethiah](Lore_Boethiah.md), [Mephala](Lore_Mephala.md), [Azura](Lore_Azura.md), [Lorkhan](Lore_Lorkhan.md), [Nerevar](Lore_Nerevar.md), [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md), [Malacath](Lore_Malacath.md), [Sheogorath](Lore_Sheogorath.md), [Mehrunes Dagon](Lore_Mehrunes_Dagon.md)

[YOKUDA](Lore_Yokuda.md): [Satakal](Lore_Satakal.md), [Ruptga](Lore_Ruptga.md), [Tu'whacca](Lore_Tu%27whacca.md), [Zeht](Lore_Zeht.md), [Morwha](Lore_Morwha.md), [Tava](Lore_Tava.md), [Malooc](Lore_Malooc.md), [Diagna](Lore_Diagna.md), [Sep](Lore_Sep.md), [Hoon Ding](Lore_HoonDing.md), [Leki](Lore_Leki.md), [Onsi](Lore_Onsi.md)

[BRETONY](Lore_Breton.md): [Akatosh](Lore_Akatosh.md), [Magnus](Lore_Magnus.md), [Y'ffre](Lore_Y%27ffre.md), [Dibella](Lore_Dibella.md), [Arkay](Lore_Arkay.md), [Zenithar](Lore_Zenithar.md), [Mara](Lore_Mara.md), [Stendarr](Lore_Stendarr.md), [Kynareth](Lore_Kynareth.md), [Julianos](Lore_Julianos.md), [Sheor](Lore_Sheor.md), [Phynaster](Lore_Phynaster.md)

[ELSWEYR](Lore_Elsweyr.md): [Alkosh](Lore_Alkosh.md), [Khenarthi](Lore_Khenarthi.md), [Riddle'Thar](Lore_Riddle%27Thar.md), [ja-Kha'jay](Lore_Ja-Kha%27jay.md), [Mara](Lore_Mara.md), [S'rendarr](Lore_Stendarr.md), [Lorkhaj](Lore_Lorkhaj.md), [Rajhin](Lore_Rajhin.md), [Baan Dar](Lore_Baan_Dar.md), [Azurah](Lore_Azura.md), [Sheggorath](Lore_Sheogorath.md)

## The Theology
One of the most important theological questions among the Tamrielic religions is the schism in the mortal's relationship to the divinity. Humans believe that they were created by the immortal forces, while the Aldmer claim descent from them. It is a distinction that colors the rest of their diverging mythologies. All Tamrielic religions begin the same. Men or Mer, things began with the dualism of [Anu](Lore_Anu.md) and [Padomay](Lore_Padomay.md), the Elven personifications of the primordial forces of stasis and change respectively.<sup>[[2]](#cite_note-TM-2)</sup>

Though the details vary with each culture and religion, all known legends of the beginning of existence speak of two entities who appeared in the [Void](Lore_Void.md) and soon found themselves in conflict. Yokudan legends view these forces as [Satak](Lore_Satak.md), the First Serpent, whose scales all worlds to ever be rested upon, and [Akel](Lore_Akel.md), the Hungry Stomach that answered the call for help from these worlds.<sup>[[2]](#cite_note-TM-2)</sup><sup>[[3]](#cite_note-BTAOM-3)</sup><sup>[[4]](#cite_note-TAA-4)</sup>. Dunmer view Anu as Nothing, as Stasis demands nothing occur, while Sithis is the original creator, who sunders Nothing and allows existence.<sup>[[5]](#cite_note-Sb-5)</sup> Khajiit refer to Anu as [Ahnurr](Lore_Ahnurr.md), who is a "littermate" to [Fadomai](Lore_Fadomai.md).<sup>[[6]](#cite_note-6)</sup>. Even the [All-Maker](Lore_All-Maker.md) worshipped by ancient Nords faced a twin force, [the Adversary](Lore_The_Adversary.md).<sup>[[7]](#cite_note-COTAM-7)</sup> Other dichotomies include Ak-El, Light and Dark, Good and Evil, Bird and Serpent, and Order and Chaos.<sup>[[8]](#cite_note-8)</sup> [Anuiel](Lore_Anuiel.md) is the Everlasting Ineffable Light, while [Sithis](Lore_Sithis.md) is the Corrupting Inexpressible Action. In the middle is the Gray Maybe (‘Nirn’ in the Ehlnofex).

In any case, from these two beings spring the [et'Ada](Lore_Gods.md), or Original Spirits. To humans these et'Ada are the Gods and Demons; to the Aldmer, they are the Aedra and Daedra or 'Our Ancestors' and 'Not Our Ancestors'.<sup>[[9]](#cite_note-9)</sup> All of the Tamrielic pantheons draw from these et’Ada, though divine membership often differs from culture to culture. However, like Anu and Padomay, every one of these pantheons contains the archetypes of the Dragon God and the Missing God.

The Time Dragon is universally understood as the First God after the twin forces, whose birth allowed other spirits to form and take names.<sup>[[2]](#cite_note-TM-2)</sup> Yokudan legends saw [Satakal](Lore_Satakal.md) as a fusion of the dual forces Satak and Akel, caused by Satak shedding his first skin due to Akel's influence.<sup>[[2]](#cite_note-TM-2)</sup> Some Argonian tribes share the same view as the Yokudans with their [Atakota](Lore_Atakota.md) (Atak and Kota).<sup>[[10]](#cite_note-Cot R-10)</sup> The Dunmer view the law of [Time](Lore_Akatosh.md) as the fusion of Stasis and Change as well, which they call "Static Change".<sup>[[11]](#cite_note-LOV21-11)</sup> Altmer view Auriel as the pure Soul of Anuiel, although the Psijic reject this view, claiming Auriel was born of Padomay's influence as well.<sup>[[UOL 1]](#cite_note-VT-12)</sup><sup>[[2]](#cite_note-TM-2)</sup> Khajiit claim that Alkosh (or Akha), was born as the First Cat, child of Ahnurr and Fadomai.<sup>[[12]](#cite_note-WOCMA-13)</sup><sup>[[13]](#cite_note-ESOSOA-14)</sup>

The Missing God is universally understood as the dead Creator God of the Mortal Plane, whose demise involved a separation from his [Divine Spark](Lore_Heart_of_Lorkhan.md).<sup>[[2]](#cite_note-TM-2)</sup> Yokudan Legends view [Sep](Lore_Sep.md) as born from the remains of previous dead Satakal, and so he carries the Hunger of Akel within. Sep would then go on to instigate the creation of the [Skin-Ball](Lore_Nirn.md), an alternative to the [Walkabout](Lore_Far_Shores.md).<sup>[[2]](#cite_note-TM-2)</sup> Argonians view the [Shadow of Atakota](Lore_Lorkhan.md) having been born shortly after Atakota. The Shadow taught Spirits many things, but in doing so taught them how to be [temporary](Lore_Mundus.md), and thus death.<sup>[[10]](#cite_note-Cot R-10)</sup> The Ayleids view [Lorkhan](Lore_Lorkhan.md) as the Shadow of the Time God, who saw possibility within the Void, and sought to utilize it.<sup>[[14]](#cite_note-15)</sup> The Dunmer view Lorkhan as the Son of Sithis, sent to destroy the universe and trick the [Aedra](Lore_Aedra.md), who had enslaved everything.<sup>[[5]](#cite_note-Sb-5)</sup> They also view him as tied to the Psijic Endeavor, a means by which they may transcend the Gods that created them.<sup>[[UOL 1]](#cite_note-VT-12)</sup><sup>[[15]](#cite_note-VOF-16)</sup><sup>[[16]](#cite_note-LOV33-17)</sup> Khajiit view [Lorkhaj](Lore_Lorkhaj.md) as the last son of Fadoami, who offered to make space for [Nirni](Lore_Nirni.md). Because he was born in the [Great Darkness](Lore_Void.md), his heart was [filled with it](Lore_Dark_Heart.md).<sup>[[12]](#cite_note-WOCMA-13)</sup> Altmer view Lorkhan as a spirit of Limitation, who offered the Gods a way to Self-Reflect and make a [soul for Aurbis](Lore_Mundus.md). The Altmer view this was a trick by Lorkhan, who created a realm far more of Sithis than Anu.<sup>[[2]](#cite_note-TM-2)</sup> Reachfolk view [Lorkh](Lore_Lorkh.md) as a teacher, who created Nirn as a realm that taught through suffering.<sup>[[17]](#cite_note-GSR5-18)</sup> A key divide in views of Lorkhan is his motivation for making Nirn, and the differing goals of mortals. Many believe they should return to the [Spirit Realm](Lore_Aetherius.md) of before, and so Lorkhan is an evil deity who upsets this attempt at escape from the Prison of Nirn. Others hold the view that the Spirit Realm was already a prison, and through Nirn, Lorkhan offers an opportunity for [true escape](Lore_CHIM.md).<sup>[[18]](#cite_note-SONGOF-19)</sup>

## Imperial Religion

### The Alessian Pantheon
The Imperial Religion primary focuses on the Eight Divines, or the Eight and One which includes the ascended Talos.<sup>[[19]](#cite_note-TCND-20)</sup><sup>[[20]](#cite_note-TPOblivion-21)</sup> The Imperials have a lot of cults dedicated to various religions within Cyrodiil, but the [Imperial Cult](Lore_Imperial_Cult.md) is the main religion of the [Empire](Lore_Empire.md) and traces its origins back to [Saint Alessia](Lore_Alessia.md)'s institution of worship of the [Eight Divines](Lore_Eight_Divines.md) as a synthesis between the Aldmer pantheon and the Nordic pantheon.<sup>[[21]](#cite_note-Sat D-22)</sup> This fusion has its origin in the remnant Aedric worship done by the Ayleids of Cyrodiil. Though by Alessia's time the Cyrodiilic Ayleids had been effectively banished their Aedra worshipping counterparts, the Aedra remained popular among the Nedic slaves as an antithesis to the ever-present worship of Daedra by their Ayleid overlords. The Aedra aided Alessia in her uprising, crafting the Crusaders relics for her ally Pelinal Whitestrake. Upon her death as Empress Akatosh forged her soul into the [Amulet of Kings](Lore_Amulet_of_Kings.md), which would prevent future invasions of Nirn by the Daedra.

### The Alessian Order, and the Temple of the One
The fundamentalist [Alessian Order](Lore_Alessian_Order.md) would seize hold of the First Empire, introducing numerous changes to both the religion and society. Founded by the Imga Prophet Marukh, they abhored all forms of Elven influence, and venerated a monotheistic worship of the One. Originally the One was an aspect of Akatosh as the God of Time, but over time the One took on increasingly obscure and unknowable aspects as different polytheistic elements were attributed to them. The Alessian Order saw no division between the spiritual and political world, and within two centuries of the Alessian Empire's founding they had completely overtaken it, where they then began to initiate pogroms against the remaining Ayleid populations of Cyrodiil. The Alessian Order also enjoyed much influence within Skyrim, but their anti-Elven bias would indirectly lead to the dissolution of the First Nordic Empire as High King Borgas traveled to propose a joint invasion of Valenwood, only to perish in a Wild Hunt. The Alessian Orders distaste for Elves was so great that they conspired to rid Akatosh himself of all remaining elven aspects, something that then resulted in the thousand and eight year long Dragon Break, the [Middle Dawn](Lore_Middle_Dawn.md). Despite this, the Alessian Order would persist until [1E 2321](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_2321) when the War of Righteousness broke out. Over a ten year period the Alessian Order dissolved, bringing with it the end of the First Empire. Elements of the Alessian Order would persist though in the form of [Temple Zero Society](Lore_Temple_Zero_Society.md), considered conspiracy theorists and persecuted under the Second Empire.

### The Imperial Cult and the Eight and One
Although known as the [Imperial Cult](Lore_Imperial_Cult.md) in the provinces, strictly speaking this term refers the missionary arm of the religion, present in provinces such as [Morrowind](Lore_Morrowind.md).<sup>[[22]](#cite_note-FMGAE-23)</sup> As the main religion in Cyrodiil, it is more commonly known in that province simply as **the Church**<sup>[[23]](#cite_note-24)</sup><sup>[[24]](#cite_note-25)</sup><sup>[[20]](#cite_note-TPOblivion-21)</sup> or **the Chapel**.<sup>[[25]](#cite_note-26)</sup> After the apotheosis of [Tiber Septim](Lore_Tiber_Septim.md), [Imperials](Lore_Imperial.md) began to spread belief in the [Nine Divines](Lore_Nine_Divines.md), incorporating worship of the Empire's god-hero [Talos](Lore_Talos.md).<sup>[[22]](#cite_note-FMGAE-23)</sup> Similar cults were made around other Emperor's, such as the Cult of Emperor Zero surrounding Cuhlecain who was never formally coronated.

However, the accession of Talos to divinity never settled well with the Altmer, who remembered his brutal conquest of the Summerset Isles bitterly. Certain segments in particular took offense at the concept of a human, rather than an elf achieving divinity. When the Thalmor seized power and formed the Aldmeri Dominion they outlawed Talos worship within their territory, and it became a point of contention between them and the Empire. On the eve of the Great War, the Thalmor delivered an ultimatum where among the cessation of large tracts of land and the disbanding of the Blades, Talos worship would be outlawed. Though the resulting war was ultimately a standstill, the [Third Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md) was still forced to sign the [White-Gold Concordat](Lore_White-Gold_Concordat.md) in [4E 175](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_175), which outlawed Talos worship.<sup>[[26]](#cite_note-27)</sup> Initially the ban was only loosely and tokenly enforced, but the ban nevertheless severely weakened the Emperor's legitimacy, particularly in Skyrim. This came to a head in the Markarth incident- where Ulfric Stormcloak crushed the short-lived Kingdom of the Reach, reincorporating them into Skyrim. Ulfric then demanded that Talos worship be reinstated, and the Jarl of the Reach was forced to comply. However this brought the attention of the Thalmor who then accused the Empire of being in violation of the treaty, and demanded the ability to hunt down Talos worshipers within Skyrim, to which the Emperor complied further damaging his reputation. The issue of Talos worship came to a head with the Skyrim Civil War.

Each major city in Cyrodiil has a [chapel](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Chapels) devoted to one of the Nine Divines. Akatosh is represented in two cities: the Imperial City and Kvatch. In contrast to the other Nine Divines, Kynareth has no chapel in the great cities of Cyrodiil, but a shrine in the Great Forest, as it is believed a temple of stone in an urban environment would displease her. All traditional chapels contain ten altars: one for each of the Nine Divines and a tenth central altar devoted to the chapel's main Divine. The staff at each traditional chapel consists of at least three people: the Primate, who is in charge of all administrative duties; the Healer, who provides healing for the citizens of the city; and the priest or priestess, who presides over services. There are several non-traditional chapels in Cyrodiil as well - the [Temple of One](Lore_Temple_of_the_One.md) is the main temple in the Imperial City and is dedicated to the official worship of Akatosh. The Divines also have numerous wayshrines throughout Cyrodiil.

There are too many cults in the Empire to mention, particularly among the Nibenese, as well as thousands of cults operating in the Imperial City alone, hence its namesake as the City of a Thousand Cults. Some of the most famous cults in Cyrodiil are the [Alessian Order](Lore_Alessian_Order.md), the [Cult of the Ancestor Moth](Lore_Cult_of_the_Ancestor_Moth.md), the [Cult of Heroes](Lore_Cult_of_Heroes.md), the [Cult of Tiber Septim](Lore_Imperial_Cult.md), the [Cult of Emperor Zero](Lore_Cult_of_Emperor_Zero.md), the Cult of Reman, the [Cult of the One](Lore_The_One.md) and the [Cult of Shezarr](Lore_Shezarr.md) to name a few.<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-PGE1S-1)</sup><sup>[[21]](#cite_note-Sat D-22)</sup>

Another aspect of the Imperial Religion is the [Imperial Saints](Lore_Imperial_Saints.md), pious individuals venerated by the Church. Devotions are often made to them as a group, known collectively as the Communion of Saints.<sup>[[27]](#cite_note-28)</sup>

The last religious institution of note is the Templar Knightly Orders. All Chantry have their own militant arm, sworn to protect its temples with their lives and enforce divine will.

## Nordic Religion

### The Atmoran Gods and the Dragon Priests
The Nordic Religion has its origins in Atmora and revolved around the worship of totem animals. Eventually, the animal-totem gods transformed into the eight gods they worship today. Their gods are as cyclical as the world itself, so they also remember the Dead Gods who fought and died to bring about the current world, the Hearth Gods who watch over the present cycle, and the Twilight God who ushers in the next cycle. As well as these are the so-called Testing Gods, who they do not worship but instead protect the hearth against.<sup>[[28]](#cite_note-29)</sup><sup>[[UOL 2]](#cite_note-30)</sup>

**Dead Gods:** Shor the Fox, Tsun the Bear

**Hearth Gods:** Kyne the Hawk, Mara the She-Wolf, Dibella the Moth, Stuhn the Whale, Jhunal the Owl

**Twilight God:** Alduin the Dragon

**Testing Gods:** Orkey the Snake, Mauloch the Old Knocker, Herma-Mora the Woodland Man

Whereas Akatosh is considered chief of the Imperial Pantheon, Kyne as Shor's Widow is the head of the Nordic Pantheon. Mara's role is also reduced as that of one of Shor's concubines. Stuhn is remembered as teaching Nords the value of taking hostages. Orkey is seen as an enemy god, who shares some connection to Orcs, a myth relates that he once cursed Nords, who were previously as long-lived as elves, down to their current lifespans.

The Nords co-ruled with Dragon Priests, powerful sorcerers who governed on behalf of the Dragons. However over time the Dragon-Priests rule became increasingly tyrannical and eclipsing that of kings. This prompted the Dragon War, where early Nords fought against Dragons and Alduin. However the Dragons shouts beat them down until Paarthunaax taught them the art of the Thu'um. Alduin was banished through time with the use of an Elder Scroll at the Throat of the World. Remnants of the Dragon Cult would persist until the reign of High King Harald who discovered the last bastion in the monastary of Forelhost. A lengthy siege ended when everyone in the monastery committed suicide, having poisoned the drinking water.

### Imperial Influence
During the time of the First Empire of the Nords Alessian's uprising in Cyrodiil gave a chance for new plunder. The Alessians swiftly allied the Nords and soon the Ayleids had been overthrown with the Nords granted large portions of the Nibenay Valley. Alessia then attempted to fuse the Elven pantheon with that of the Nords, promoting a multicultural empire. While the Alessian reforms spread through Skyrim, in large parts they remained controversial. The largest source of contention was the role of Kynareth or Kyne, where the Nordic Kyne has a much stronger warrior aspect than that of Kynareth.

When the Imperials arrived, they brought with them their southern religion and worked to unify the worship of the Eight Divines, resulting in the construction of the [Temple of the Divines](Skyrim_Temple_of_the_Divines.md) in Solitude. Whiterun, Riften and Markarth also have temples devoted to each of the Hearth Gods; [Kynareth](Skyrim_Temple_of_Kynareth.md), [Mara](Skyrim_Temple_of_Mara.md) and [Dibella](Skyrim_Temple_of_Dibella.md) respectively. Most cities have a [Hall of the Dead](Lore_Hall_of_the_Dead.md), the Nordic term for mausoleums where bodies are interred, overseen by a Priest of Orkey or Arkay, depending on the era, who ensures that corpses are properly consecrated and cared for. Most famous of these Halls is the Heroes' graveyard in Falkreath, where great battles took place here for centuries, and where countless warriors were buried.<sup>[[29]](#cite_note-SRNenya-31)</sup><sup>[[30]](#cite_note-SRLoad-32)</sup>

The spiritual relationship between the Nords and the Thu'um is crucial to understanding Nordic beliefs and motivations. They believe Kyne breathed life into them at the [Throat of the World](Lore_Throat_of_the_World.md), the highest mountain in Skyrim.<sup>[[31]](#cite_note-33)</sup><sup>[[1]](#cite_note-PGE1S-1)</sup>. They view the Thu'um as a gift from Kyne, and those with the talent to wield it are called "Tongues". The ancient Greybeards, masters of the Thu'um, still sit atop the 7000 steps leading to [High Hrothgar](Lore_High_Hrothgar.md), near the summit of the Throat of the World, where they practice the [Way of the Voice](Lore_Way_of_the_Voice.md). Their leader, [Jurgen Windcaller](Lore_Jurgen_Windcaller.md), brought about a ban on the use of the Thu'um outside of times of "True Need", following the Nords overthrow at Red Mountain.<sup>[[32]](#cite_note-SRHrothgar-34)</sup> Tiber Septim established the Imperial College of the Voice in Markarth in an attempt to turn the Way of the Voice to warfare. Today the High Hrothgar is a common pilgrimage destination and only a few are granted access to its halls as they must be deemed worthy by the Greybeards first. Most are then trained in the Way of the Voice.

Another major pilgrimage site is the [Eldergleam Sanctuary](Lore_Eldergleam.md), which is sacred to the worshippers of Kyne. It is said to be the oldest living thing in Skyrim, perhaps all of Tamriel, older than metal, from a time before men or elves which makes it impervious to regular weapons. <sup>[[33]](#cite_note-35)</sup>. The [Gildergreen](Lore_Gildergreen.md), another holy tree found in Whiterun and great importance to the city's Temple of Kynareth, was planted during the early days of the settlement using a seed taken from the ancient Eldergleam.

The afterlife awaiting Nords is [Sovngarde](Lore_Sovngarde.md) to all who die nobly in battle. A realm of Aetherius, the Hall of Valor is ruled over by Shor, and where Nords drink, feast, sing songs, and do battle. Entry to the Hall of Valor requires that one test their might against the Shieldthane God Tsun who guards the whalebone bridge connecting to it. However so long as Tsun sees courage in those who seek entry he lets them go past.

In the time of the Last Dragonborn, Alduin had retreated from the living world, seeking entrance to Sovengarde through a portal in Skuldafn. There he cast Svongarde in a thick impenetrable fog and devoured upon the souls of the dead to gain strength. However the Last Dragonborn, accompanied by Dragonborn hero's of old, were able to defeat Alduin once and for all, and prevent the end-times he was prophesized to usher in and devour the world. The Hero's of Sovngarde then vowed that the Last Dragonborn would always have a place in the Hall of Valor. As for Alduin's defeat, it was pondered by the Greybeards if he was truly gone forever, or if he would still reappear when the end-times truly came.

## Breton Religion
The Breton Religion is a melting pot of faiths inherited from the Bretons' Nedic and Aldmer ancestors. The earliest Bretons, the Manmer, inherited a form of nature worship from their Nedic ancestors, but this faith split into two separate subcultures. The witches of the Wyrd became their [own entity](Lore_Wyrd_Covens.md) due to the elves, and these witches continue to worship "old gods of the ancient past" in the modern day.<sup>[[34]](#cite_note-LADCG-36)</sup> On the other hand, [Druidism](Lore_Druidism.md) arose as a distinct identity shortly after the Bretons first came about, and their Y'ffre-centric religion survived in the Systres Archipelago after their exodus.<sup>[[35]](#cite_note-ONWD-37)</sup><sup>[[36]](#cite_note-ONLOTB-38)</sup><sup>[[37]](#cite_note-ONSHV-39)</sup> Druidism would later be reintroduced to mainland Tamriel, specifically around Iliac Bay.<sup>[[38]](#cite_note-DFDeath-40)</sup><sup>[[UOL 3]](#cite_note-DFTDE-41)</sup> Most Bretons transitioned to the Eight [Divines](Lore_Divines.md) under the [First Empire](Lore_Alessian_Empire.md). The Eight Divines are worshipped widely in mainstream Breton culture,<sup>[[39]](#cite_note-TIEGTT-42)</sup> but other traditional deities still persist nonetheless. Sheor, Phynaster, Y'ffre and Magnus have significant cults in High Rock.<sup>[[15]](#cite_note-VOF-16)</sup>

The first druids of High Rock are referred to as the [Druids of Galen](Lore_Druids_of_Galen.md) by retroactive nomenclature, and they were the Nedes of High Rock<sup>[[40]](#cite_note-LATD-43)</sup> (or proto-Bretons)<sup>[[UOL 4]](#cite_note-44)</sup><sup>[[34]](#cite_note-LADCG-36)</sup> that intermingled with the Aldmer<sup>[[41]](#cite_note-PGE3A-45)</sup> for centuries during the [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md). They are practitioners of Y'ffre's True Way (also known as Druidism), in which one is to lead a life connecting with, valuing, and stewarding the growth of the natural world referred to as [the Green](Lore_The_Green.md). A religious schism brought about the Wyrd's separation from their druid brethren. The Wyrd abandoned civilization in favor of living in the wilds,<sup>[[35]](#cite_note-ONWD-37)</sup>, believing that they were nature itself: the forest, the plants and beasts within it, and even the weather.<sup>[[42]](#cite_note-46)</sup><sup>[[35]](#cite_note-ONWD-37)</sup> In contrast, the druids accepted what they interpreted as their "proper place" as people, and embraced the idea that civilization can coexist alongside nature.<sup>[[35]](#cite_note-ONWD-37)</sup><sup>[[43]](#cite_note-LABHI-47)</sup><sup>[[44]](#cite_note-ESODR-48)</sup><sup>[[45]](#cite_note-ESOWM-49)</sup> Once a singular entity, the Wyrd split into subgroups by the time of the last Druid King's voyage to the Systres. These sisterhoods remained behind on the mainland to safeguard the forests of High Rock, with some of the dozen or so covens even spreading throughout Tamriel.

The details of the influence of Aldmeri religion among the earliest of Bretons is sparse. Evidence of peaceful cultural diffusion of religion between men and mer exists in the form of unearthed ancient idols of Mara as depicted in the elven pantheon.<sup>[[46]](#cite_note-Manmer-50)</sup> Interestingly, Sheor, or his Aldmeri pantheon equivalent Lorkhan, is depicted positively in a lovers embrace with this elven Mara figure,<sup>[[46]](#cite_note-Manmer-50)</sup> while Sheor is demonized in modern Breton religion<sup>[[47]](#cite_note-VOFB-51)</sup>, as is Lorkhan.<sup>[[48]](#cite_note-VOFHE-52)</sup> Worship of the elven gods still exists in modern Breton culture, such as among Bretons that emphasize their elvish blood, who are often drawn towards Phynaster.<sup>[[47]](#cite_note-VOFB-51)</sup> The gods [Magnus](Lore_Magnus.md) and Y'ffre are traditionally associated with elven pantheons.<sup>[[15]](#cite_note-VOF-16)</sup> Though Breton's Nedic ancestors knew of Y'ffre's presence in their hearts and channeled his power,<sup>[[34]](#cite_note-LADCG-36)</sup> his name was not known to them until the daughters and sons of Anuiel introduced them to the name Y'ffre.<sup>[[35]](#cite_note-ONWD-37)</sup>

## Redguard Religion

### Yokudan Pantheon
The Redguard Religion originated from an ancient [Yokudan](Lore_Yokuda.md) creation myth. It centers around the idea of [Satakal](Lore_Satakal.md) the World-Snake consuming the [current world](Lore_Kalpa.md) to begin another. This continuous cycle prompted the birth of spirits that could survive the transition. One such spirit was [Ruptga](Lore_Ruptga.md), a Yokudan god and the first who learned how to do so. Ruptga set the stars in the sky to show [lesser spirits](Lore_Et%27Ada.md) how to do this, and these spirits ultimately became the Yokudan pantheon. Yokudan creation myth holds that mortals are doomed to mortality because they are very far away from the real world of Satakal, and the safe haven of the [Far Shores](Lore_Far_Shores.md) is too far away for them to jump to from the mortal world.<sup>[[49]](#cite_note-TAX-53)</sup><sup>[[15]](#cite_note-VOF-16)</sup><sup>[[2]](#cite_note-TM-2)</sup> It is believed that [Sep](Lore_Sep.md), the Yokudan variant of Lorkhan, tricked the other spirits into creating the mortal world, claiming this would make it easier for more spirits to survive Satakal's inevitable onslaught. However, the mortal plane acted as a trap which made apotheosis even harder.<sup>[[15]](#cite_note-VOF-16)</sup> In this way, the Redguard view of creation has more in common with the Elven tradition than that of other humans, who view the mortal plane as a blessing.<sup>[[2]](#cite_note-TM-2)</sup>

### Imperial Syncretism
[Crowns](Lore_Crowns.md) tend to worship the old Yokudan pantheon, while [Forebear](Lore_Forebear.md) beliefs have more modern Imperial influences. Many Crowns are nomadic tribesman who mainly travel around the [Alik'r Desert](Lore_Alik%27r_Desert.md), and though they adhere to traditional Yokudan beliefs, they have also developed a deep, spiritual attachment to their adopted land. They venerate deities and spirits of all kinds, from Pixies (or faeries) to Satakal the Worldskin, the god of everything. The Forebears include several of the Divines recognized by other cultures. However, it is often unclear if they have the same understanding of these deities that others possess, as they often use a name of one of the Divines when referring to a Yokudan deity.

The Silverhoof Horsemen tribe of High Rock have substantially different religious beliefs than their brethren. They venerate a divine animist spirit they call the [Herd Mother](Lore_Herd_Mother.md). Their tradition holds that they left Yokuda in order to freely worship this equine deity.<sup>[[50]](#cite_note-THFOS-54)</sup>

Additionally, the Redguards also revere their departed ancestors. The origins of Redguard ancestor worship is unclear. Some believe this ancient tradition began after the Yokudans settled in Hammerfell. They noticed that corpses decomposed very slowly in the desert, and over time the people assigned a spiritual significance to the process and declared that the remains of their ancestors were sacred.<sup>[[51]](#cite_note-FJad-55)</sup> Other sources claim Ancestor Worship was the most sacred law and tradition of the ancient Yokudans.<sup>[[52]](#cite_note-Yeqdah-56)</sup>

Redguards are famous not just for their many religious rituals surrounding the dead, but also for the elaborate necropolises they build to house them. At these sacred sites, supplicants give prayer not just to their own direct ancestors, but also historical Redguard kings and the untold number of Yokudans who perished when the continent sank.<sup>[[53]](#cite_note-IEGTT-57)</sup>

## Altmer Religion

### Aldmer Ancestor Worship
The Altmer originally practiced a form of holistic [ancestor worship](Lore_Ancestor_Worship.md), carried over from their days as Aldmer. After the discovery of the Adamantine Tower, the [Crystal Tower](Lore_Crystal_Tower.md) was built by the Aldmer in its honor, and was initially a place of Ancestor Worship.

Over time however, the ancestor spirits of the nobility were prioritized over the other ancestor spirits, leading to the emergence of the modern pantheon of Aedra (lit. Our ancestors) and the Daedra (lit. Not our ancestors), with the Aedra forming the Altmeri pantheon and Daedra worship being strictly banned. The worship of the Aedra introduced a more hierarchical element to the previously communal Aldmer, where Aedra worship came to mean revering the ancestors of the nobility in particular, given time most modern Altmer would come to claim direct descent from one of the believed spirit ancestors of the nobility, [Auri-El](Lore_Auri-El.md). A number of Elders rebelled against this religious shift however, deeming themselves 'The Keepers of the Old Ways' of Ancestor Worship, and they formed the [Psijic Order](Lore_Psijic_Order.md) of Artaeum. They hold that both the Aedra and Daedra were nothing other than "the spirits of superior men and women whose power and passion granted them great influence in the afterworld", and who in turn had once worshipped their own ancestors, the [Acharyai](Lore_Acharyai.md), while living.

### The Aedra
Still, mainstream Altmer religion honored the Gods Auri-El, Mara, Dibella, Stendarr, Xarxes, Xen, as well as Y'ffre the first of the [Earth Bones](Lore_Ehlnofey.md), Syrabane and Phynaster, Elves who had achieved Apotheosis, and Trinimac the Elven God of War. This Pantheon served as the basis for Elven settlers in the rest of Tamriel, including Valenwood, Cyrodiil, High-Rock, and Skyrim. However the strictness of religious rulings, in particular the outlaw of Daedra worship, fed discontent for many Elves. Daedra worship became initially permitted in Cyrodiil, far from the direct rule of Alinor, where it grew over time to eventually supplant Aedra worship entirely. Though at first both the Aedra and Daedra were worshipped in equal measure. One of the most climactic events in religious history came with the Prophet Veloth and the consumption of Trinimac. While the Ayleids worshipped all Daedra, Veloth focused on the trinity of Azura, Mephala, Boethiah as 'the Good Daedra'. In legend, Trinimac and his followers opposed the Velothi movement and tried to stop it. In response, Boethiah somehow decieved and consumed Trinimac, taking his form. Boethiah-as-Trinimac then deceived Trinimac's followers, 'giving lie to the Aedra', and when Trinimac was expelled his weakened form had become Malacath. Trinimac's most ardent worshippers in turn changed becoming the outcast Orcs. With Trinimac and his followers dealt with, the Velothi exodus to Morrowind continued. Despite this, Trinimac continued to hold a position in the Altmer and Snow Elf Pantheons.

With the coming of the Third Empire, many Altmer resented the apotheosis of Talos, bitterly remembering Tiber Septim's brutal conquest of the Summerset Isles. However religious controversy did not occur until the Thalmor seized control of the Summerset Isles in the early 4th Era. They stipulated that no human man, not even Tiber Septim, could possibly achieve Apotheosis, and outlawed the worship of Talos in their territories. In the leadup to the Great War the official outlawing of Talos Worship was made part of the demands the Aldmeri Dominion made against the Empire, though these demands were merely a pretext for an invasion that was already in place. While the war was fought to a standstill, Emperor Mede still acceded to the ban on Talos Worship in the White-Gold Concordant that ended the war. Following the Markarth Incident in Skyrim the Thalmor demanded the right to hunt down and prosecute Talos worship within Imperial territories in the name of upholding the peace-treaty, even though they were planning for renewed conflict.

## Ayleid Religion

### The Ancestors, Aedra, and Daedra
Settling in the modern-day province of Cyrodiil, the Ayleids, or Heartland Wild Elves, initially practiced a form of Aedra worship similar to that of the Altmer colonists that originally settled the province. After the discovery of the Adamentine Tower, and the settlement of the Imperial Isles the Elven settlers built the White-Gold Tower in its honor. It may have been a center of ancestor worship similar to the Crystal Tower within the Summerset Isles, ten statues of meteoric glass named the Ten Ancestors were kept within the Temple of the Ancestors within the White Gold Tower, and these statues would remain culturally important to the Ayleids up until the dissolution of their Cyrodiilic Empire.

The Ayleids believed the world to be composed of four elements, the traditional water, earth and air, but they believed that the fourth and strongest element was light, with fire being a weaker corruption thereof. And Starlight was the purest expression of light from which all magic flowed. As such the head of the Ayleid Pantheon was Meridia, otherwise seen as one of the more benevolent or at least neutral Daedra. A similar reasoning was likely the reason why many Ayleids had included Magnus in the Aedric pantheon. Meteoric Glass was seen as crystalized starlight, and used to make Varla and Welkynd stones.

### The Narfinsel Schism
However far removed from the direct rule of Alinor and its strict religious laws, many settled in Cyrodiil for the religious freedom the relative remoteness that the region provided. Daedra worship in particular was repressed in the Summerset Isles, and so many Daedra worshippers left for Cyrodiil. At first they were merely tolerated, but over time they became accepted, and then even celebrated within Ayleid culture. The Aedra and Daedra were at one point worshipped in equal measure, but over time a rift emerged between the Daedraphiles and the Aedraphiles (dubbed the Barsaebics). This became known as the [Narfinsel Schism](Lore_Narfinsel_Schism.md), and would break out into open warfare. The conflict came to a head with the Scouring of Wendelbek in 1E 189, the last Aedraphile stronghold in Cyrodiil. Surviving Barsaebic Elves fled to Argonia where they founded major cities, such as Gideon, Stormhold, Archon and Thorn, conquering land from the native human and beastfolk races. However despite their worship of the Aedra, the Barsaebic Ayleids still performed atrocities against enslaved populations, and ruled with the use of Necromantic arts.

However the end of the Narfinsel Schism is credited with greatly weakening the Ayleid Empire, helping aid their downfall fifty years later. The remaining Ayleids exclusively worshipped the Daedra, and in contrast with the contemporary Chimer they made no distinction between the 'Good' and 'Bad'. Many of the Daedra are known by alternate names, including Merid-Nunda, Mola Gbal, Hyrma-Mora, and Blood-Made-Pleasure. They also worshipped Ithelia prior to her banishment by the other Daedra. Daedric Lords would also pit Ayleid city-states against one another, such as a war between Abarglas and Deolidiil, instigated by Meridia and Molag Bal. However in exchange for the Ayleid's worship and sacrifices of slaves (the Daedra having fomented 'art-tortures' and 'flesh-sculptures') the Daedra granted the Ayleid Kings armies of Daedra and the undead, and many Ayleids prowl ancient ruins as undead wights. There was also an unknown 'Insect-God' worshipped by the Flower-King Nilichi.

Despite the shift to staunch Daedra worship, the worship of Aedra remained popular among the Nedic slaves of Cyrodiil who saw them as a preferable alternative to the Daedra who further oppressed them. The Aedra are said to have personally intervened on behalf of the Nedes appearing to Saint Alessia at Sancre Tor and inspiring her slave-rebellion. They also sent the wandering hero Pelinal Whitestrake, and Morihaus the divine half-bull to aid her, granting Pelinal the Crusaders Relics. The slave-rebellion also swiftly allied the First Empire of the Nords promising them territory within the Nibenay Valley. At the same time several Ayleid city-states also allied Alessia, many were discontent witht he outlaw of Aedra worship, while others were mere political opportunists looking to attack their enemies. Together this coalition managed to overturn the Ayleid Empire within the span of two years.

Umaril the Unfeathered was a Demiprince who claimed parentage from the world-river of the previous world's kalpa and ruled over the White-Gold Tower in the Ayleid's twilight. Meridia granted him armies of Aurorans from the Colored Rooms. His duels with Pelinal Whitestrake were seen as an extension of the battle between the Aedra and Daedra. Pelinal Whitestrake was finally slain after Umaril tired him out using waves of enemies, though at the expense of Umaril's apparent death. Afterwards the remaining Ayleid kings cut Pelinal's body was cut into eighths as a mockery of the Eight Divines. But with Umaril's death, the White-Gold Tower had essentially been won, and the Ayleids could not seriously challenge control of Cyrodiil.

Last ditch attempts were made to defeat the slave-rebellion, among them the hunt for the Wrathstone, however Meridia bestowed one half to the city of Garlas Matatar proclaiming the Ayleid Empire would soon fall. Ultimately the defeated Ayleids were exiled from Cyrodiil. Some attempted to integrate into the Barsaebic Ayleids of Argonia, but they were rebuffed, the Barsaebic elves believing their brothers reaping a just punishment. The Ayleid populations instead fled to join the Elven populations of High-Rock and Valenwood, however the King of Valenwood stipulated that the Ayleids must submit to the Green Pact, diminishing the strength of their culture.

### Return to Aedra Worship
The allied Ayleid city-state of Alessia submitted to vassalage status, reinstating Aedra worship and banning Daedra worship, and they lived peaceably with their newly freed Nedic neighbors for a time, with Ayleid tutors becoming popular among human lords. However the fundamentalist and anti-Elven Alessian Order soon overtook the Empire of Alessia within two centuries, and pushed for the stripping of Elven land-rights, the dissolution of Elven lordships, and eventually Elven pogroms. The remaining Elven City-States were given the option of choosing exile, or being put to death. Eventually all remaining Ayleids in Cyrodiil were reduced to a tribal nomadic states and were increasingly rarely spotted, originating the term 'Wild Elves'.

The Ayleids eventually disappeared entirely from Tamriel, with leading theories that they completely integrated into other Elven populations, but with the end of their culture came the end of their religious practices.

## Bosmer Religion
Much of Bosmer Religion centers around the [Green Pact](Lore_Green_Pact.md), a strict code upheld by many Bosmer in order to preserve [the Green](Lore_The_Green.md), the natural world on Nirn.<sup>[[54]](#cite_note-PGE1AD-58)</sup> It forbids the Bosmer from harming [Valenwood's](Lore_Valenwood.md) forests or plant life and or killing wastefully, among other things.<sup>[[55]](#cite_note-59)</sup> However, despite its apparent simplicity, there are some aspects of the Green Pact that cause confusion, particularly to outsiders, but aspects of the Green Pact are debated even among the Bosmer. Despite the tenet "eat no plants", consuming fallen fruits is not considered a breach of the Green Pact, and according to the Green Lady [Gwaering](Lore_Gwaering.md), the tenet would be better rephrased as "harm no living plants".<sup>[[56]](#cite_note-GAYQ-60)</sup> It is widely accepted for Bosmer to consume items such as dairy, honey, mushrooms, and insects, and only the most zealous of Pact Bosmer consider this a breach of the Green Pact.<sup>[[56]](#cite_note-GAYQ-60)</sup> Another tenet of the Green Pact requires Bosmer to eat all fallen enemies within three days. This is known as the Meat Mandate - however, this faded out of common practice by the Second Era, only being adhered to in the most remote villages.<sup>[[57]](#cite_note-61)</sup>

The Green Pact also forbids the felling of lumber within Valenwood which has impacted the provinces architecture. Wood Elf Cities are grown using magic to manipulate the trees into the shapes of houses. However foreigners are not considered subject to the Green Pact, and thus more traditional cities of stone and sawn wood have been constructed by other cultures in their border regions. Many Ayleids fleeing persecution by the Alessians built such cities as one example, however the Ayleids were forced to submit to the Green Pact to garner the protection of the Valenwood King, further diluting their culture. There is also no prohibition on Bosmer importing and using lumber from other provinces that do not follow the Green Pact.

Bosmer creation myth says that before everything, there was only primordial [Ooze](Lore_Ooze.md), constantly shifting chaos. The god [Y'ffre](Lore_Y%27ffre.md) shaped and ordered the chaos by telling their stories, creating the Green, giving the Bosmer their physical forms, and most importantly establishing the Green Pact between the Green and the Bosmer. As long as the Bosmer respected the Green, they could ask the Green for shelter and sustenance and it would obey. However, when Y'ffre was finished, there was still leftover Ooze, so Y'ffre gave the remaining Ooze a purpose, letting it serve as a warning to the Bosmer that any who violated the Green Pact in any way would be condemned and return to the formlessness of the Ooze.<sup>[[58]](#cite_note-62)</sup> To this day, the Bosmer recognize Ooze to be a spiritual prison for those who break the code of the Green Pact.<sup>[[59]](#cite_note-63)</sup>

Despite having influences from the Eight, The Bosmer Religion includes many other deities, including [Aedra](Lore_Aedra.md) such as [Auri-El](Lore_Auri-El.md), [Arkay](Lore_Arkay.md), [Mara](Lore_Mara.md) and [Stendarr](Lore_Stendarr.md), [Daedra](Lore_Daedra.md) such as [Hircine](Lore_Hircine.md), and spirits unique to Valenwood like [Baan Dar](Lore_Baan_Dar.md) and [Selene](Lore_Selene.md).<sup>[[60]](#cite_note-VOFWE-64)</sup> The [Wooded Eye](Lore_Wooded_Eye.md) cult in the [Drowned Coast](Lore_Drowned_Coast.md) worshiped a malicious trickster spirit by the name of Herma-Mora, although they insist their Mora is different from the Daedric Prince [Hermaeus Mora](Lore_Hermaeus_Mora.md). Other Bosmer openly admit that the two are the same. Other notable deities in the Bosmer pantheon include Xarxes, Z'en, and the Wilderking/Wilderqueen, a living god worshiped by tribal Bosmer.

## Falmer Religion
The [Snow Elves](Lore_Snow_Elf.md) of Skyrim had religious beliefs apparently very similar to that of their Altmer cousins, worshipping a pantheon that included at least Auri-El, Trinimac, Syrabane, Phynaster, and Jephre. However the Snow-Elves placed a much greater emphasis on Auri-El as the head of the pantheon then even the Altmer, where he possessed an aspect relating to the Sun, as opposed to that of the God Magnus. Each of the Gods had a temple dedicated to them, though the greatest and most elaborate was the Chantry of Auri-El located within the Forgotten Vale. The veneration of the Elven Gods continued even as the Snow Elves were driven from Skyrim, in fact the Chantry of Auri-El would not be completed until the early first-era, and would persist for centuries thanks to its isolation. Pilgrims would perform an arduous pilgrimage, taking the Initiates Ewer and filling them with the water of the wayshrines of Illumination, Learning, Radiance, Resolution, and Sight before they were allowed entry into the Chantry proper.

Most Elves were forced to make an uneasy alliance with Skyrim's Dwarves as the Nords drove them out. While some Snow Elves may have integrated with other Elven populations in Tamriel, and others found refuge in obscure Enclaves in places like the Forgotten Vale, most were forced into accepting enslavement by the Dwemer, who further went on to permanently blind the race using a toxic fungus. It is unknown if there were any attempts by the Dwemer to 'convert' their slaves from their Aedra-worshipping ways. Despite this the Snow Elf slaves looked for ways to preserve their culture, and ultimately waged a war of rebellion for several centuries, dubbed the War of the Crag. A war the Snow Elves won by the default when the Dwarves mysteriously disappeared in 1E 700. Despite this, for unknown reasons the Snow Elves had devolved into bestial creatures lacking their former grace and intelligence for reasons unknown (the blinding of their race seemingly an inadequate cause). These corrupted Snow Elves are commonly dubbed 'Falmer' have lost any connection to their former culture, including by all appearances the worship of their old gods. The Falmer however do seem to maintain shrines to the mysterious God [Xrib](Lore_Xrib.md).

Unfortunately the fate of free uncorrupted Snow Elves fared little better. The leader of the Chantry of Auri-El, Arch-Curate Vyrthur, would be infected with vampirism by a fellow initiate. This event caused him to lose faith in Auri-El, and as revenge against the God he intentionally spread the Prophecy of the [Tyranny of the Sun](Lore_Tyranny_of_the_Sun.md) with the hope that a Daughter of Coldharbor could come to him and reclaim Auriel's Bow, fulfilling the prophecy and blotting out the Sun, one of Auri-El's greatest means to influence the world. In addition he also turned many of the corrupted and devolved Falmer that stalked Skyrim's underground with Vampirism and led an assault against his own Chantry, slaughtering all other known uncorrupted Snow Elves. The only survivor was Vyrthur's brother, Knight Paladin Gelebor. Gelebor in turn was granted an expanded lifespan he credited to the will of Auri-El, and stood guard over the entrance to the Forgotten Vale, tasking adventurers with slaying his brother. In 4E 201 the Last Dragonborn completed this quest, with much of the Chantry damaged in the fight, but with Vyrthur slain and his treachory revealed, Gelebor mused that perhaps other uncorrupted Snow Elf enclaves may persist, and that the corrupted Falmer are growing in intelligence and may return to the worship of Auri-El some day in the future.

## Dunmer Religion

### The Prophet Veloth
The Dunmer's religion owes its origin with the [Chimer](Lore_Chimer.md) exodus, and the [Prophet Veloth](Lore_Veloth.md). Many in the Summerset isles strained against the strict religious laws forbidding the worship of deities besides the Aedra, particularly the Daedra. Disdaining the decadent High-Elf society, Veloth embraced the trinity of 'the three Good Daedra', being [Boethiah](Lore_Boethiah.md), [Azura](Lore_Azura.md), and [Mephala](Lore_Mephala.md). Boethiah attempted to teach the elves the Psijic Endeavor, the method by which mortals could ascend to godhood. Correspondingly the Chimer and their Dunmer descendants retain a similar view of creation and Lorkhan as most men, that the world acts a crucible to make them stronger and that therefore the creation of the world was a good thing to be praised.

However this movement was opposed by the religious elites of the Summerset Isles, particularly by the Aedra [Trinimac](Lore_Trinimac.md) and his priests. Boethiah (in some versions aided by Mephala and Azura) then intervened, causing the Transformation of Trinimac into [Lore:Malacath](Lore_Malacath.md), having 'eaten' the god, taken his form, 'giving lie to the aedra', 'excreting' the god, with the 'dung' being Malacath, with whom the followers of Trinimac covered themselves in it, becoming Orcs. The exact interpretation of this event varies, but these events cemented the Orcs as their enemies, and their patron god Malacath as the first corner of the [House of Troubles](Lore_House_of_Troubles.md), the 'Bad Daedra' that oppose the Chimer and Dunmer. To avoid this curse, the three Good Daedra would take portions of their followers in different directions, with the rest continuing to Morrowind, where Malacath's curse and spite is what changed Morrowind into a land of ash.

While they had practiced their beliefs in secret in the Summerset Isles, eventually Velothi led an exodus of most of his followers to a new homeland, following a revelation the prophet had in a dream. They would follow a hawk over an icy-mountain range, where they were confronted by a woman who demanded Veloth swear an oath, which he did to dedicate his soul to his people, allowing passage into their new homeland of Resdayn (modern-day Morrowind).

However, the newly changed Chimer were apparently surprised to find their new homeland already inhabited by the [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md) who knew the land as Dwemereth. The two races did not get along, as the Dwemer's militant atheism made them scoff at the Daedra worshipping ways of the Chimer. The two were in conflict for resources, and the Chimer would also face with Nedes and Orcs.

Despite this, a golden-age of culture flourished, known as the High Velothi era, in which the Good Daedra taught the Chimer many secrets, including how to differentiate themselves from the Altmer, 'responsible architecture', philosophy, magic, and assassination. They also taught them the dangers of the 'Bad Daedra' the four corners of the 'House of Trouble' which came to represent the dangers of Morrowind, who needed to be appeased rather than worshipped. Malacath would test the Dunmer for strength, [Mehrunes Dagon](Lore_Mehrunes_Dagon.md) represented the physical dangers of Morrowind's treacherous terrain, [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md) was seen as the primary source of obstacles and tempted the Chimer (and later Dunmer) to mix their bloodlines, and Sheogorath would strain the mental fortitude of the Chimer/Dunmer.

For unknown reasons, during the Late Merethic Era the Velothi culture declined, becoming a tribalistic culture that would split between the Great Houses of Morrowind, and the nomadic Ashlander tribes.

When the Middle Dawn broke, it is said that the Prophet Veloth was able to tell Boethiah of its coming, and that both the Good and Bad Daedra worked together to isolate Morrowind from its effects.

Morrowind would then be conquered by the First Nordic Empire, with the sole holdout being the Dwarven Kingdom of Vvardenfell. However an alliance would form between the two rival races, the Chimer and the Dwemer, thanks to the personal friendship of their leaders, Indoril Nerevar and Dumac Dwarfking, and together they were able to overthrow the Nords, and formed the United Council of Resdayn. Though this was controversial to a great degree, the two were able to peacefully coexist for the following centuries, even though tales tell of continued religious tension.

### The Rise of the Tribunal
This alliance collapsed when it came to light that the Dwarves had discovered the Heart of Lorhkan and intended to use it to make an artificial God, the Numidium. This was an affront to every part of the Chimer's religion, and war between the former allies broke out. However accounts vary wildly to the events- the 'Secular Houses' were led by Dumac Dwarfking, while the Great Houses and Ashlander tribes were led by Indoril Nerevar, while there was an additional army of allied Orcs and Nords seeking to reclaim lost territories but it's unclear if whether they sided with one army or another or acted as a third faction. Likewise unclear was the role of House Dagoth, whether they worked with the Chimer or the Dunmer. However, regardless of these factors, the Chimer were successful at the Battle of Red Mountain, going into the heart of Vvardenfell, where at some point the tools of Kargenac were used, and the Dwemer all uniformly vanished from Nirn in their entirety. The tale would be further complicated to the fate of Indoril Nerevar and his companions- which would form the heart of a religious divide within the elven race.

The official narrative from the Tribunal who would take control of most of Morrowind was that Nerevar lead a party consisting of himself, Voryn Dagoth, Almalexia, Sotha Sil and Vivec into the heart of Red Mountain where they confronted Dumac Dwarfking and destroyed the Dwarves with the aid of Azura. Both Nerevar and Dumac died of their wounds within the battle, with Voryn Dagoth having betrayed Nerevar, and the survivors were through great virtue granted godhood in approval by all their ancestors, forming the Tribunal, the Triumvirate of Almsivi, or Almalexia, Sotha Sil, and Vivec.

In truth this was a lie, with a sacred promise to Azura that Nerevar made his companions swear on broken, the Tribunal had used the Tools of Kagrenac on themselves to achieve godhood. As punishment for the blasphemy, Azura transformed the Chimer into the Dunmer, changing their skin color from a golden hue to an ashy black. Apparently the three were surprised to see this had been a punishment for their entire race rater than them personally. Almalexia used her power to revert her body back into that of a Chimer, with Vivec choosing to have half his body be a Dunmer and the other a Chimer, while Sotha Sil chose to stay as a Dunmer.

The truth of what happened at Red Mountain is still a mystery. In private accounts, Vivec recalled that it was Kagrenac using his tools on the Heart of Lorhkan that destroyed the Dwemer. Voryn Dagoth wanted the tools destroyed, but the others convinced him to debate the matter, so Dagoth was left to guard the tools. Eventually the Nerevar was convinced to let the tools be preserved in case the Dwemer might ever return, but upon returning to Red Mountain, Voryn Dagoth had apparently gone mad and adopted the views of Kagrenac, and in the ensuing battle, Dagoth had been destroyed, Nerevar was dying, and the Tribunal had the tools. Sotha Sil was later able to study them and use them to achieve their godhood.

The Ashlander tribes who would reject the Tribunal in favor their traditional worship of the Good Daedra instead claim an account of Alandro-Sul, a demigod shield-companion of Nerevar, that the Tribunal were not present at Red Mountain, and when he went to consult them that he was poisoned before the Tribunal would take the tools of Kagrenac from Voryn Dagoth.

Regardless of the exact events, the Tribunal had taken control of Morrowind. House Dagoth was dissolved, its members either executed or folded into the other houses. Vvardenfell was declared a Temple Preserve, with only a few carvouts for some Great House settlements. The Tribunal would need to take a yearly pilgrimage to Red Mountain to renew their powers using the Tools of Kagrenac and the heart of Lorkhan. The Tribunal painted themselves as present gods of the people, unlike the distant Daedra who they traditionally worshipped, and they were able to use their powers to protect Morrowind. Sheogorath on a whim threw the massive meteor Baar Dau at the province, which Vivec halted. Over the next millennia, pilgrims would visit the area, laying the foundations for the city of Vivec (named after its patron god). Baar Dau itself would be repurposed as the Ministry of Truth where heretical dissident priests would be imprisoned. Almalexia would defeat Mehrunes Dagon after he destroyed the city of Mournhold, and the city would be re-named after her. Sotha Sil sought mastery over both magic and technology, building the Clockwork City, named after himself, and overseeing the Clockwork Apostles. Sotha Sil would also oversee the Coldharbor Compact, where with unknown terms eight of the more prominent Daedra (Mehrunes Dagon, Azura, Boethiah, Hermaeus Mora, Hircine, Malacath, Molag Bal and Sheogorath) were seemingly prevented from manifesting on Nirn.

The Tribunal took an active hand in leading Morrowind, though typically staying out of the politics of the Great Houses. The Ashlander tribes were sidelined. Their power was integral to holding off the Imperial Invasion during the Four-Score War, being the sole holdout on the continent of Tamriel. The war ended with a truce, and though the Reman Dynasty would be overthrown the Akaviri Potentate would honor it. Later during the interregnum, the Tribunal helped fend off the Second Akaviri Invasion with the unlikely allies of the Nords of Eastern Skyrim, and the Argonian tribes of northern Black Marsh, laying the foundations for the Ebonheart Pact during the Three Banners War. Events during and following the Planemeld saw several forces try to interfere with the divine gods power.

### The False Dreamer
Despite all this, the biggest challenge to the Tribunal came in 2E 882 where their yearly pilgrimage to Red Mountain was interrupted for the first time by Dagoth Ur, the godly reincarnation of Voryn Dagoth, having become the Sharmat, the False Dreamer. Dagoth Ur's return caused Red Mountain to erupt, and he plotted to use the Heart of Lorkhan to build a new god, the Akulakhan, and he would recruit others to his cause in their dreams, reforming the Sixth House. The Ash Blight had also come bringing with it plagues to Vvardenfell. The Tribunal barely survived their encounter, and without access to Red Mountain their power would continue to weaken. Sotha Sil began to try to create his own version of Lorkhan's Heart within the Clockwork City to make up for its loss.

Amidst all this was the meteoric rise of Tiber Septim, who eventually invaded Morrowind for its vast resources of Ebony. Eventually the Tribunal agreed to a preferential peace-deal: Tiber Septim did not want to fully exhaust his forces on the living gods, weakened though they were, and the Tribunal did not wish to use their remaining power stop Septim while they still had to contend with Dagoth. In the treaty the Tribunal would be recognized as the leaders of the province with religious security guaranteed and a large degree of cultural autonomy (including the preservation of slavery which was otherwise banned throughout the Empire). This treaty still diminished the Tribunals standing, and more blood would be shed in the subsequent coups than there were in the War against the Empire.

With their focus back on Red Mountain, the Tribunal would campaign against Dagoth's forces, even slaying him on multiple occassions, but he would be continually revived in the Heart Chamber of Red Mountain, preventing the Tribunal from renewing their power. Instead the Tribunal moved to contain Dagoth, erecting the Great Ghostfence across Red Mountain, confiscating what had previously been local family shrines. Dagoth Ur spread the Blight throughout Vvardenfell, cultivating followers from Ash Vampires, and recruiting descendants of the Sixth House to his cause to reform House Dagoth, planning to create a new path forward for the Dunmer with himself and the Akulakhan as Gods, while casting out the Mongrel Dogs of the Empire and any non-Dunmer.

While censorship and religious persecution had been tools the Tribunal had used, with the loss of their divine power they came to rely more and more on these tools becoming increasingly repressive, which in turn further damaged their reputation. They in particular tried to repress the Nerevarine Prophecy, which stated that Nerevar would reincarnate and overthrow them.

While it is unknown how, Uriel Septim VII learned of the Nerevarine Prophecy and tried to have it fulfilled, finding an agent of the Blades that fulfilled the most of its prerequisites. This Nerevarine would adventure across Vvardenfell (recently opened up to colonization by the Empire), fulfilling the prophecy. The Nerevarine was successful in finally destroying Dagoth Ur (who until the end was unsure if they were an enemy or a friend) alongside the Heart of Lorkhan and the still under construction Akulakhan. While Morrowind was saved from Dagoth Ur and the Blight, the Tribunal were without any source of divine power. Almalexia had grown mad with the loss of her power, murdering Sotha Sil and plotting to murder Vivec before betraying the Nerevarine and being struck down by them. Vivec would later disappear bringing about the end of the Tribunal Temple.

### The New Temple
The loss of their living gods caused a period of turmoil and uncertainty for the Dunmer. One of the most pressing matters was the fate of Baar Dau, now no longer held in place by Vivec. Clavicus Vile was convinced to keep it in place in exchange for a steady supply of souls via the Ingenium. However this was destroyed by one of its makers, Sul, once the soul of his love had been used, which resulted in Baar Dau resuming full force destroying Vivec City, turning it into Scathing Bay, and triggering another eruption of Red Mountain, and thus the [Red Year](Lore_Red_Year.md). Seizing upon their weakness, the Argonian of Black Marsh invaded Morrowind in retaliation for centuries of enslavement, taking large swathes of the province before they were pushed out. These events caused a large exodus of Dunmer out of Morrowind.

Eventually Morrowind stabilized itself, though significantly weakened with House Redoran now leading the other houses. The worship of the Tribunal was abandoned in favor for a return for the traditional worship of the Good Daedra. To ease the transition, the Tribunal were demoted to the rank of 'Saint', reserved for highly respected ancestors. This allowed a reconciliation with the Ashlander tribes who were hailed as keeping to the old traditional ways where the Tribunal had misled the Dunmer. In an ironic twist, those who stuck to the old tenets of the Tribunal now found themselves as a persecuted minority who practiced their faith in secret, some looking to preserve relics of the Tribunal.

## Dwemer Religion
The [Dwemer](Lore_Dwemer.md) are unique of the races of Nirn for their militant atheism. While they did not deny the existence of the Aedra, Daedra, or presumably other major spirits, they do not consider their divinity to be noteworthy. They believed that the Aedra and Daedra were simply very powerful beings whose powers could be rationally understood and even recreated. It is said that the Dwarves instead worshipped the twin gods of 'Logic and Reason', but it is unclear if this was a turn of phrase, or to be taken more literally.

The Dwarves atheism was a point of contention between them and the Daedra-worshipping Chimer of Morrowind, with the Dwemer viewing the Chimer as superstitious and the Chimer viewing the Dwemer as blasphemers. While peace was achieved between the two factions in Morrowind was achieved with the Council of Resdayn, this created enough controversy that Clan Rourken chose self-imposed exile in Hammerfell. Even then, religious tension was not completely eliminated, an original Dwemer tale concerns a Dwemer who through his friendship with a Chimer Priest of Azura to summon the Daedra with the intent of beating their omniscience. The tale ends with Azura cursing both the Dwemer and Chimer.

The religious tensions exploded once it became revealed that the Dwemer of Vvardenfell had obtained the Heart of Lorkhan, and were using it to attempt to create their own God, [Numidium](Lore_Numidium.md) the Walk-Brass Tower. When this was revealed to the Chimer, they confronted Dumac Dwarfking the leader of Vvardenfell who vehemently denied the accusations (though he may have been genuinely unaware of the experimentation being done). What resulted was the War of the First Council which dissolved the Chimer-Dwemer Alliance, as the Chimer believed that the attempts to harness the Heart of Lorkhan and create a new god was the highest blasphemy. The war reached its climax with the [Battle of Red Mountain](Lore_Battle_of_Red_Mountain.md). An alliance of Nords and Orcs was also present for the battle, in some versions to reclaim lost territories, but in the Nordic version they were informed the Dwarves held the Heart of Lorkhan and sought to reclaim it from the Dwarves, even temporarily summoning the ghost of Shor. In other versions the only partially completed Numidium was activated in the Battle, which some attribute to a possible Dragon Break, an event that has occurred with every known activation of the Numidium. Nevertheless all the Dwemer had vanished all at once from the face of Tamriel following the Battle's end, leaving only spirits and dust. The exact causes of this disappearance remain debated and theorized upon up to the modern day, but it is strongly believed that the tampering of the Heart of Lorkhan was responsible. Whether the Dwarves disappeared as a form of divine punishment, or as the result of a species-wide apotheosis, or some other explanation is unknown.

Despite the religious outrage of the Chimer, their top leaders went down to the Red Mountain and had access to the Heart of Lorkhan, and among themselves made the decision to claim that divine power harnessed by the Dwemer for themselves. Dagoth Ur was destroyed to become the False Dreamer, while Almalexia, Sotha-Sil, and Vivec attained godlike power, and for this blasphemy Azura turned all the golden-skinned Chimer into the dark ashy-skinned Dunmer. These three new Gods would then reform Dunmer religion into the Tribunal.

Dwemer architecture and craftmanship would fascinate scholars for millennia hence, but their disappearance is largely remembered as a moment of ultimate hubris by most of the Gods fearing cultures of the world. Some Dwarven ruins would be reclaimed by other races, and chambers would be repurposed as altars of worship for a number of Gods.

## Orsimer Religion
The Orsimer are fundamentally tied to the Daedric Prince [Malacath](Lore_Malacath.md). According to legend, the Orsimer were the most devoted Elven followers of the God of War, Trinimac. However Trinimac and his followers opposed the Velothi movement, and the Prince of Plots Boethiah planned his downfall. According to the Orsimer, when Trinimac confronted Boethiah he was stabbed in the back by the Daedric Prince Mephala, and then 'consumed' by Boethiah, taking his form. Then Boethiah-as-Trinimac and 'gave lie to the Aedra' to Trinimac's followers, causing them to 'act foolishly'. After Trinimac was tortured in Boethiah's 'belly' she 'excreted' him and the 'dung' that remained was the twisted Malacath, neither truly Aedra or Daedra and thus spurned by both. Malacath himself confirms this story, though he considers it too 'literal' minded. While several versions of the story exist, the major elements remain consistent. Trinimac's most ardent worshippers were transformed with him to become the Orsimer, the 'Pariah Folk', also commonly referred to as Orcs. Owing their origin to Malacath, Orcish religion is largely Monothiestic in nature.

The Orcs were shunned by the rest of Elven society, and fared little better with human kingdoms, nevertheless the Orcs spread throughout Tamriel adopting a tribal shamanistic culture, and thriving in parts of the continent too brutal for others, such as the Wrothgar Mountains and Hammerfell. Malacath introduced the 'Code of Malacath' to the Orcs that informs the basis of stronghold culture that the Orcs follow stringently. The Code is passed down orally, and varies from stronghold to stronghold, and some moderation is tolerated based upon circumstances. The Code stipulates that only a Chieftain, the strongest Orc, has the right to marry, with all other men serving as soldiers, and he is to rule until one of his sons grows strong enough to challenge and kill him, becoming the new chief. In fact, it is believed that it is shameful for an Orc to grow old, and after a certain age Orc men should seek honorable deaths in battle, something they believe Malacath may send them. It is unknown why Orcs lack the same lifespans as other Elves, though a Nordic myth says that Wulfharth threw off a curse by Alduin that had reduced all Nords down to only six years of age onto the Orcs.

All women that are not the Chief's blood relatives are to be his wives, forming a polygamous society. Daughters are often traded among strongholds to maintain alliances, and different wives have differing responsibilities based on what order the Chief married them. The most prominent female position however is that of the Chief's mother, who acts as wisewoman and shaman to the tribe. However, unions between Orcs that are not the Chieftain are still permitted, they are simply not recognized as legal marriages. The founding of Orsinium required moderation of the Code to accommodate such a large urban population. Orcs were allowed to freely marry, as it would have been unfeasible to enforce traditional marriage laws on such a scale.

Breaking the Code demands a Blood Price, to be paid in gold or blood. For outsiders this doesn't extend to religious rulings, only to criminal acts like theft or assault. Malacath himself will enforce the Code, and communicate with strongholds following rituals. He punished Largashbur by sending relentless attacks of Giants to punish their Chieftain's cowardice and weakness. He tasked the Chieftain with retrieving the giant's hammer, but when he died from either weakness or duplicitousness, Malacath ended the attacks and named a new Chieftain. Malacath also looks kindly upon revenge and encourages Orcs to sustain long grudges.

While mainstream Orcish religion emphasizes the role of Malacath, there is a notable contingent of Orcs who draw a distinction between Malacath and Trinimac. While some believe that Malacath in fact stole some of Boethiah's Daedric strength to make the Orsimer stronger, others believe that Malacath in fact usurped Trinimac and tricked his followers. Others still believe that the aspects of Malacath and Trinimac can be reconciled as two aspects of the same deity. The emphasis of Trinimac in Orcish religion has twice coincided with the politics of Orsinium, as emphasizing the Aedric Trinimac leads to better relations with other Aedra worshipping civilizations, something the Orcs typically lack, but both times this was done it was brief and controversial. During the second era however fundamentalist Trinimac cultists even attempted to forcefully convert all Orcs in Orsinium to Trinimac worship, but this attempt failed.

Orcs perform cremation on their dead, occasionally keeping them in Mausoleums, but traditionally they are placed in cairns, spread in a field, or the open sky. High-ranking Orcs may have their ashes reforged into a weapon or armor, a practice known as 'beskar-nor'. It is believed that Orcs go to Malacath's domain of the Ashpit, where they will reside in the Ashen Forge, a massive longhouse where Orcs are promised abundunt food, drink and constant battle. There every Orc is a Chief with a thousand wives, and every wife has a thousand servants. Grudges in life are forged by Malacath into mighty weapons that strengthen the Orcs, amassing a massive army. However, some believe that more gentle Orcs are taken into Aetherius by Trinimac, where they likewise engage in food, drink, and battle, but with a greater emphasis on spending time with their family.

## Argonian Religion
<sup>[[*citation needed*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Template:Fact) - References need to be provided for this section]</sup>

### The Hist
Mainstream Argonian religion revolves around with their relationship with the Hist, sentient living trees that form a collective consciousness. The Hist were some of the original spirits leftover from creation, and though they were bystanders in the war between the Ehlnofey most of them were wiped out, with only a small population surviving in what would become Black Marsh. The Argonians are otherwise entirely apathetic to the Aedra, Daedra, or other major spirits. There are no words for the Daedra in their language of Jel, as they do not wish to darken their language by discussing them, and as such they largely use the names for them in other languages.

Ancient Myth claims that the Hist had some part in the creation of the Argonians, and most Argonians view the Hist as their creators. Ancient cave-paintings show figures that appear as a mix of tree and Argonian that seem to support this. The Hist are important for the reproduction of Argonians, as their eggs are typically incubated in pools of Hist Sap, and those born without the aid of the Hist are unable to hear them, while those born within Black Marsh are capable of a unique form of Hist Magic that lacks any of the same rules as other schools of Magic. Hist Shamans consume Hist Sap to commune with the Hist, though there are physical effects from consuming too much, and it can cause bloodlust and hallucinations in non-Argonian's.

Occasionally Elder Hists will mark an Argonian for a sacred task, which gives them wooden skin with veins of glowing amber. Sap-Speakers know to aid any individual they encounter like this. The Hist have been able to strengthen Argonians, and can also change the physical sex of an Argonian if so asked.

The three stages of a Hist's lifespan serve as names for three of the months in the Argonian Calendar. The relationship between the Hist and the Argonian is often characterized as one of mutual affection- the Hist care for the Argonians, and in turn the Argonians care for them back, a symbiotic relationship.

### The Stone Nest Period
While it seems that the Argonians worshipped the Hist since time immemorial, for unknown reasons it is said that the two 'forgot how to speak to each-other'. While the two races continued to care for each-other, this caused instability for Argonian society at the time. The Argonians then began to worship Sithis as the embodiment of destruction and change, which they feared and would hold ritual sacrifices in their name. This however had some controversy amongst the preisthood at the time.

Showcasing their fear of changing time, the Argonians built great stone monuments such as the many Xanmeers or pyramids to try to overcome these forces. Some Hist supported this notion. At the time they were ruled by the Nisswo, or the Nothing Speakers, a dedicated caste of priests that worshipped Sithis.

### Return to Hist Worship
However this ancient Argonian civilization faded from time, in an event called Duskfall. The specifics are unknown, but it's believe that the Argonians were able to re-establish communication with the Hist, discovered by an Argonian named Jaraleet who experimented with consuming Hist Sap. It's said that the 'Hist showed them the way' teaching them to accept the impermanence of life and the constant of change. Thus the Argonians reverted back to small tribes and villages of sticks and mud.

Sithis would be continued to be worshipped, but for his aspects of change. The Argonians choose to embrace the nature of change, and to live in the moment. This worldview extends to their language, as Jel lacks words to describe a past or future tense, and they find these words in other languages the most difficult part to understand. The Nisswo would persist, but reformed as peaceful advocates of change. They would worship Sithis as 'The First Creator and First Destroyer' and sharing information between Argonian tribes.

The Argonians believe in reincarnation, something that the Hist can aid them with. For this to occur the body must be returned to the ground or left out in nature. If an Argonian were to die outside these conditions, such as in a stone prison, then it is enough to bury his bones. To avoid creating Bog Blights, Argonian bodies are affixed to the bottom of marshes with a Grave Stake by a Grave Singer who sings a final song for the departed. Those who commit blasphemies are typically bound to an urn. Argonians reject Arkay's blessing which would protect them from necromancy, but the practice is uncommon in Black Marsh due to the swampy conditions being bad for the preservation of corpses.

The Hist were key to the defense of Black Marsh during the [Oblivion Crisis](Lore_Oblivion_Crisis.md). They were able to recall most of the Argonian population back to Black Marsh, somehow anticipating the event, and invited the Argonians into themselves to strengthen them. When Mehrunes Dagon's Oblivion Gates opened over the province, the armies of Argonians were so fierce they were able to counter-invade and force the Daedra to close the gates. Following this Black Marsh emerged as one of the strongest provinces in the Empire, and soon seceded forming Argonia.

However the nationalist An-Xileel took over Argonia, and took heed from the rogue Hist of Lilmoth that had cut itself off from the rest of the Hist, and instigated the [Umbriel Crisis](Lore_Umbriel_Crisis.md).

### The Tide
The Argonians of Solstice do not live near the Hist and do not hear their voice, and so have different rituals. They lay their clutches on the shore, where they believe old souls can find new life in them. A still-born egg to them is a great tragedy as it ends the chance for further reincarnation. Death Dancers serve to help ease a souls transition into the Void and petition Sithis for aid in their journey. Argonians are buried as per mainland tradition, unless it is believed they did not reach their full potential in life, and are instead buried/staked by the shoreline to aid in their reincarnation.

## Khajiit Religion

## Other Religions

## References
1. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-PGE1S_1-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-PGE1S_1-1)***</sup><sup>***[c](#cite_ref-PGE1S_1-2)***</sup> [*Pocket Guide to the Empire, 1st Edition: Cyrodiil*](Lore_Pocket_Guide_to_the_Empire,_1st_Edition_Cyrodiil.md) — [Imperial Geographical Society](Lore_Imperial_Geographical_Society.md), [2E 864](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_864)
2. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-TM_2-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-TM_2-1)***</sup><sup>***[c](#cite_ref-TM_2-2)***</sup><sup>***[d](#cite_ref-TM_2-3)***</sup><sup>***[e](#cite_ref-TM_2-4)***</sup><sup>***[f](#cite_ref-TM_2-5)***</sup><sup>***[g](#cite_ref-TM_2-6)***</sup><sup>***[h](#cite_ref-TM_2-7)***</sup><sup>***[i](#cite_ref-TM_2-8)***</sup><sup>***[j](#cite_ref-TM_2-9)***</sup> [*The Monomyth*](Lore_The_Monomyth.md)
3. [^](#cite_ref-BTAOM_3-0) [*Before the Ages of Man*](Lore_Before_the_Ages_of_Man.md) — [Aicantar of Shimerene](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Aicantar_of_Shimmerene)
4. [^](#cite_ref-TAA_4-0) [*The Annotated Anuad*](Lore_The_Annotated_Anuad.md)
5. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-Sb_5-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-Sb_5-1)***</sup> [*Sithis*](Lore_Sithis_(book).md)
6. [^](#cite_ref-6) [*Words of Clan Mother Ahnissi*](Lore_Words_of_Clan_Mother_Ahnissi.md) — [Clan Mother Ahnissi](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Clan_Mother_Ahnissi)
7. [^](#cite_ref-COTAM_7-0) [*Children of the All-Maker*](Lore_Children_of_the_All-Maker.md) — [Tharstan of Solitude](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Tharstan_of_Solitude)
8. [^](#cite_ref-8) [*The Light and The Dark*](Lore_The_Light_and_The_Dark.md) — [Irek Unterge](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Irek_Unterge)
9. [^](#cite_ref-9) [*Aedra and Daedra*](Lore_Aedra_and_Daedra.md)
10. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-Cot R_10-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-Cot R_10-1)***</sup> [*Children of the Root*](Lore_Children_of_the_Root.md) — [Solis Aduro](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Solis_Aduro)
11. [^](#cite_ref-LOV21_11-0) [*36 Lessons of Vivec, Sermon 21*](Lore_36_Lessons_of_Vivec,_Sermon_21.md) — [Vivec](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Vivec)
12. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-WOCMA_13-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-WOCMA_13-1)***</sup> [*Words of Clan Mother Ahnissi*](Lore_Words_of_Clan_Mother_Ahnissi.md) — [Clan Mother Ahnissi](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Clan_Mother_Ahnissi)
13. [^](#cite_ref-ESOSOA_14-0) [*Spirits of Amun-dro*](Lore_Spirits_of_Amun-dro.md) — [Amun-dro](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Amun-dro.2C_the_Silent_Priest), the Silent Priest
14. [^](#cite_ref-15) [*Nine Coruscations*](Lore_Nine_Coruscations.md)
15. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-VOF_16-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-VOF_16-1)***</sup><sup>***[c](#cite_ref-VOF_16-2)***</sup><sup>***[d](#cite_ref-VOF_16-3)***</sup><sup>***[e](#cite_ref-VOF_16-4)***</sup> [*Varieties of Faith...*](Lore_Varieties_of_Faith....md) — [Brother Mikhael Karkuxor](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Brother_Mikhael_Karkuxor) of the Imperial College
16. [^](#cite_ref-LOV33_17-0) [*36 Lessons of Vivec, Sermon 33*](Lore_36_Lessons_of_Vivec,_Sermon_33.md) — [Vivec](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Vivec)
17. [^](#cite_ref-GSR5_18-0) [*Great Spirits of the Reach: Volume 5*](Lore_Great_Spirits_of_the_Reach__Volume_5.md) — [Vashu gra-Morga](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Vashu_gra-Morga), Chief Daedrotheologist at the [University of Gwylim](Lore_University_of_Gwylim.md)
18. [^](#cite_ref-SONGOF_19-0) [*Spirit of Nirn, God of Mortals*](Lore_Spirit_of_Nirn,_God_of_Mortals.md)
19. [^](#cite_ref-TCND_20-0) [*Ten Commands: Nine Divines*](Lore_Ten_Commands__Nine_Divines.md)
20. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-TPOblivion_21-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-TPOblivion_21-1)***</sup> [The Prophet](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:The_Prophet)'s dialogue in *[Oblivion](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Oblivion): [Knights of the Nine](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Knights_of_the_Nine)*
21. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-Sat D_22-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-Sat D_22-1)***</sup> [*Shezarr and the Divines*](Lore_Shezarr_and_the_Divines.md) — [Faustillus Junius](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Faustillus_Junius)
22. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-FMGAE_23-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-FMGAE_23-1)***</sup> [*For my Gods and Emperor*](Lore_For_my_Gods_and_Emperor.md) — [Imperial Cult](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Imperial_Cult)
23. [^](#cite_ref-24) [Gaston Tussaud](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Gaston_Tussaud)'s dialogue in *[Oblivion](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Oblivion)*
24. [^](#cite_ref-25) [The Stone of St. Alessia](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:The_Stone_of_St._Alessia) quest in *[Oblivion](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Oblivion)*
25. [^](#cite_ref-26) [Avrus Adas](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Avrus_Adas)' dialogue in *[Oblivion](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Oblivion)*
26. [^](#cite_ref-27) [*The Great War*](Lore_The_Great_War_(book).md) — Legate [Justianus Quintius](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Justianus_Quintius)
27. [^](#cite_ref-28) [*Guide to the Imperial City*](Lore_Guide_to_the_Imperial_City.md) — [Alessia Ottus](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Alessia_Ottus)
28. [^](#cite_ref-29) [*Divines and the Nords*](Lore_Divines_and_the_Nords.md) — [High Priest Ingurt](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#High_Priest_Ingurt)
29. [^](#cite_ref-SRNenya_31-0) [Nenya](Skyrim_Nenya.md)'s dialogue in *[Skyrim](Skyrim_Skyrim.md)*
30. [^](#cite_ref-SRLoad_32-0) [Falkreath](Skyrim_Loading_Screens.md#City-Specific) loading screen in *[Skyrim](Skyrim_Skyrim.md)*
31. [^](#cite_ref-33) [*Children of the Sky*](Lore_Children_of_the_Sky.md)
32. [^](#cite_ref-SRHrothgar_34-0) [The Etched Tablets of High Hrothgar.](Skyrim_High_Hrothgar.md#Etched_Tablets)
33. [^](#cite_ref-35) [Danica Pure-Spring](Skyrim_Danica_Pure-Spring.md)'s dialogue
34. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-LADCG_36-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-LADCG_36-1)***</sup><sup>***[c](#cite_ref-LADCG_36-2)***</sup> [*Loremaster's Archive - The Druid Circles of Galen*](Lore_Loremaster%27s_Archive_-_The_Druid_Circles_of_Galen.md) — [Laurel](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Druid_Laurel) of the Stonelore
35. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-ONWD_37-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-ONWD_37-1)***</sup><sup>***[c](#cite_ref-ONWD_37-2)***</sup><sup>***[d](#cite_ref-ONWD_37-3)***</sup><sup>***[e](#cite_ref-ONWD_37-4)***</sup> [*Wyrd and Druid*](Lore_Wyrd_and_Druid.md) — [Archdruid Barnabe](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Archdruid_Barnabe)'s Discourse with Mainlanders, 2E 553
36. [^](#cite_ref-ONLOTB_38-0) [*Legacy of the Bretons*](Lore_Legacy_of_the_Bretons.md) — [Stefan Mornard](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Stefan_Mornard)
37. [^](#cite_ref-ONSHV_39-0) [*Systres History*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:Systres_History) — [Trilam Heladren](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Trilam_Heladren), Associate Dean of Eltheric History, [University of Gwylim](Lore_University_of_Gwylim.md)
38. [^](#cite_ref-DFDeath_40-0) Death cutscene in *[Daggerfall](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Daggerfall:Daggerfall)*
39. [^](#cite_ref-TIEGTT_42-0) [*The Improved Emperor's Guide to Tamriel: High Rock*](Lore_The_Improved_Emperor%27s_Guide_to_Tamriel_High_Rock.md) — [Flaccus Terentius](Lore_Flaccus_Terentius.md), [2E 581](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_581)
40. [^](#cite_ref-LATD_43-0) [*Loremaster's Archive - Tamriel's Dungeons*](Lore_Loremaster%27s_Archive_-_Tamriel%27s_Dungeons.md) — [Dhulef](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Dhulef)
41. [^](#cite_ref-PGE3A_45-0) [*Pocket Guide to the Empire, 3rd Edition: All the Eras of Man, A Comprehensive History of our History*](Lore_Pocket_Guide_to_the_Empire,_3rd_Edition_All_the_Eras_of_Man.md) — [Imperial Geographical Society](Lore_Imperial_Geographical_Society.md), [3E 432](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_432)
42. [^](#cite_ref-46) [Wyress Demara](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Wyress_Demara) and [Wyress Linnae](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Wyress_Linnae)'s dialogue in [ESO](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Online)
43. [^](#cite_ref-LABHI_47-0) [*Loremaster's Archive - Bretons & High Isle*](Lore_Loremaster%27s_Archive_-_Bretons_%26_High_Isle.md) — [Lady Arabelle Davaux](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Arabelle_Davaux)
44. [^](#cite_ref-ESODR_48-0) [Druid Ryvana's](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Druid_Ryvana) dialogue in [ESO](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Online)
45. [^](#cite_ref-ESOWM_49-0) [Wyress Matilde](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Wyress_Matilde)'s dialogue during [Sojourn of the Druid King](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Sojourn_of_the_Druid_King) in [ESO](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Online): *[Firesong](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Firesong)*
46. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-Manmer_50-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-Manmer_50-1)***</sup> [Manmer Coupled Idol](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Glenumbra_Antiquities#Manmer_Coupled_Idol) Antiquity codex entries in [ESO](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Online)
47. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-VOFB_51-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-VOFB_51-1)***</sup> [*Varieties of Faith: The Bretons*](Lore_Varieties_of_Faith__The_Bretons.md) — [Brother Mikhael Karkuxor](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Brother_Mikhael_Karkuxor) of the Imperial College
48. [^](#cite_ref-VOFHE_52-0) [*Varieties of Faith: The High Elves*](Lore_Varieties_of_Faith__The_High_Elves.md) — [Brother Mikhael Karkuxor](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Brother_Mikhael_Karkuxor) of the Imperial College
49. [^](#cite_ref-TAX_53-0) [*Tu'whacca, Arkay, Xarxes*](Lore_Tu%27whacca,_Arkay,_Xarxes.md) — [Lady Cinnabar](Lore_Lady_Cinnabar.md) of [Taneth](Lore_Taneth.md)
50. [^](#cite_ref-THFOS_54-0) [*The Horse-Folk of Silverhoof*](Lore_The_Horse-Folk_of_Silverhoof.md) — [Doctor Nabeth al-Gilane](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Doctor_Nabeth_al-Gilane), [Khefrem](Lore_Khefrem.md) Academy of Yokudan Heritage
51. [^](#cite_ref-FJad_55-0) [King Fahara'jad](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:King_Fahara%27jad)'s dialogue in [ESO](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Online)
52. [^](#cite_ref-Yeqdah_56-0) [Vizier Yeqdah](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Vizier_Yeqdah)'s dialogue in [ESO](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Online)
53. [^](#cite_ref-IEGTT_57-0) [*EGT*](Lore_The_Improved_Emperor%27s_Guide_to_Tamriel.md) — [Flaccus Terentius](Lore_Flaccus_Terentius.md), [2E 581](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_581)
54. [^](#cite_ref-PGE1AD_58-0) [*Pocket Guide to the Empire, 1st Edition: Aldmeri Dominion*](Lore_Pocket_Guide_to_the_Empire,_1st_Edition_Aldmeri_Dominion.md) — [Imperial Geographical Society](Lore_Imperial_Geographical_Society.md), [2E 864](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_864)
55. [^](#cite_ref-59) [*The Green Pact and the Dominion*](Lore_The_Green_Pact_and_the_Dominion.md)
56. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-GAYQ_60-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-GAYQ_60-1)***</sup> [*Gwaering Answers Your Questions*](Lore_Gwaering_Answers_Your_Questions.md) — [Gwaering](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Gwaering)
57. [^](#cite_ref-61) [*War Customs of the Tribal Bosmer*](Lore_War_Customs_of_the_Tribal_Bosmer.md) — [Mistral Aurelian Teriscor](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Mistral_Aurelian_Teriscor)
58. [^](#cite_ref-62) [*The Ooze: A Fable*](Lore_The_Ooze__A_Fable.md)
59. [^](#cite_ref-63) [Indaenir's](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Indaenir) dialogue in [ESO](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Online)
60. [^](#cite_ref-VOFWE_64-0) [*Varieties of Faith: The Wood Elves*](Lore_Varieties_of_Faith__The_Wood_Elves.md) — [Brother Mikhael Karkuxor](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Brother_Mikhael_Karkuxor) of the Imperial College

**Note**: The following references are considered to be [unofficial sources](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/General:Unofficial_Lore). They are included to round off this article and may not be authoritative or conclusive.

1. ^ <sup>***[a](#cite_ref-VT_12-0)***</sup><sup>***[b](#cite_ref-VT_12-1)***</sup> [*The Thief Goes to Cyrodiil*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/General:The_Thief_Goes_to_Cyrodiil) — Vivec
2. [^](#cite_ref-30) [*The Nords' Totemic Religion*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/General:The_Nords%27_Totemic_Religion)
3. [^](#cite_ref-DFTDE_41-0) [*The Dragon's Eyrie/Daggerfall*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/General:The_Dragon%27s_Eyrie/Daggerfall)
4. [^](#cite_ref-44) [*Leamon Tuttle's Posts*](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/General:Leamon_Tuttle%27s_Posts)