#  The Ayleids

| Book Information | | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Writer | [Lawrence Schick](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/General:Lawrence_Schick) | | |
| Seen In: | - [Elder Scrolls Online](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Daedra_Worship:_The_Ayleids) | | |
| Prev. | None | Next | *[The Chimer](Lore_Daedra_Worship__The_Chimer.md)* |

Daedra Worship: The Ayleids **by [Phrastus of Elinhir](Lore_Phrastus_of_Elinhir.md)** *A description of Daedric worship by the Ayleids* *
---
The reasons why the [Daedra](Lore_Daedra.md) are reviled and their worship forbidden among all the civilized races of [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) are well understood, and as this series of papers will show, are grounded in historical events. The opinions of the so-called academic who styles herself "[Lady Cinnabar](Lore_Lady_Cinnabar.md)" notwithstanding, the evidence supporting my assertions is incontrovertible and generally accepted by all accredited scholars of antiquity.

The [Aldmeri](Lore_Aldmer.md), who'd been first to begin organized worship of the [Aedra](Lore_Aedra.md), were also the first to venerate the Daedra Lords. This probably began on a small scale among the [Ayleids](Lore_Ayleids.md), those Elves who left the [Summerset Isles](Lore_Summerset_Isles.md) to create splinter cultures in central and southwest Tamriel—in some cases specifically to evade the strictures of Aldmeri regulation, which forbade (among many other things) the worship of Daedra.

As Ayleid culture flourished, drawing ever further from [Alinor](Lore_Alinor_(city).md), in the last millennium of the [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md) Daedric worship took hold and spread among the Heartland High Elves. The Aedra were still widely revered, with probably a majority of the Ayleids continuing to pay them homage, but cults devoted to the various [Daedric Princes](Lore_Daedric_Princes.md) sprang up across [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), tolerated and then celebrated. Unlike the [Chimer](Lore_Chimer.md), the Ayleids made no distinction between "[good](Lore_Good_Daedra.md) and [bad](Lore_Bad_Daedra.md)" Daedra—indeed, even some of the more heinous Princes received mass veneration, especially when their worship was adopted and endorsed by Ayleid kings and aristocrats.

Widespread Daedra worship among the Heartland Elves was particularly ill news for the tribes of [Nedic](Lore_Nede.md) humans who were then arriving in Tamriel. The Ayleids enslaved the immigrant tribes of Men, at first occasionally but then systematically, and the Nedic people found themselves subject to masters who, in many cases, worshiped the Princes—including those who encouraged slavery, domination, and cruelty. Under the Ayleids, the human thralls found themselves the subjects of such Daedra-inspired "arts" as flesh-sculpture and gut-gardening. In fact, the revulsion for Daedra-worship that pervades most human cultures in Tamriel probably originated in this period.

The [Alessian slave-revolt](Lore_Alessian_Slave_Rebellion.md) of the early [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md) was largely fueled by desperate rage against the Ayleids' Daedra-inspired cruelty. The Ayleid kings who aligned themselves with the rebellion were largely Aedra-worshipers, which in part explains why, once the Ayleids were overthrown, Queen [Alessia](Lore_Alessia.md) incorporated the leading Elven Aedra into the [First Empire](Lore_Alessian_Empire.md)'s worship of the [Eight Divines](Lore_Eight_Divines.md). Her new Empire of Cyrodiil outlawed the worship of the Daedric Princes, and Daedra-worshiping Ayleids were exterminated wherever they were found.

Thus, by the middle of the First Era, large-scale Daedra-worship was extinct in central Tamriel, surviving only among the Chimer in the northeast of the continent, and among the [Orcs](Lore_Orc.md) (ever a pariah people) who worshiped [Malacath](Lore_Malacath.md) (or Mauloch) as their god-ancestor. Elsewhere, among Men, [Mer](Lore_Mer.md), and [Beast-Peoples](Lore_Beastfolk.md), Daedra-worship survived only at the level of cults which were more-or-less forbidden. Lady Cinnabar's assertions to the contrary are so much horsewash.