# People L

[Overview](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:People) | [A](Lore_People_A.md) [B](Lore_People_B.md) [C](Lore_People_C.md) [D](Lore_People_D.md) [E](Lore_People_E.md) [F](Lore_People_F.md) [G](Lore_People_G.md) [H](Lore_People_H.md) [I](Lore_People_I.md) [J](Lore_People_J.md) [K](Lore_People_K.md) L [M](Lore_People_M.md) [N](Lore_People_N.md) [O](Lore_People_O.md) [P](Lore_People_P.md) [Q](Lore_People_Q.md) [R](Lore_People_R.md) [S](Lore_People_S.md) [T](Lore_People_T.md) [U](Lore_People_U.md) [V](Lore_People_V.md) [W](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:People_W) [X](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:People_X) [Y](Lore_People_Y.md) [Z](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:People_Z)
---

#### Laatvulon ([Dawn Era](Lore_Dawn_Era.md#Dawn_Era) - [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582))
[Laatvulon](Lore_Laatvulon.md), known also as the **Demon from the East** and the **Black Beast**, was a black [Dragon](Lore_Dragon.md). His name means *Last-Night* in the [Dragon language](Lore_Dragon_Language.md); it is a name that conjures a foreboding sense of finality, such as "final darkness," appropriate considering the [prophetic possibility](Lore_Prophecy_of_the_New_Moon.md) he might have paved the way to unleash "a New Moon filled with darkness."

#### Labhraidh ([2E 542](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_542) - [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582))
[Labhraidh](Lore_Labhraidh.md) was a [Reachman](Lore_Reachfolk.md) leader of a commando associated with the Reachfolk Dark Witness Clan, who attempted to reclaim northern [Bangkorai](Lore_Bangkorai.md) from the [Bretons](Lore_Breton.md). He led the group who attacked the town of [Murcien's Hamlet](Lore_Murcien%27s_Hamlet.md). He was active during the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md) in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582).

#### Jarl Laila Law-Giver (fl. 4E 201)
Jarl of [Riften](Lore_Riften.md) in [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201). During her reign, she refused to accept that the [Thieves Guild](Lore_Thieves_Guild.md) were a major concern, or to acknowledge the influence they had. The Guild and powerful local crime bosses limited her ability to control [the Rift](Lore_The_Rift.md). She had two sons, Harrald and Saerlund, although Saerlund was largely shunned due to his open and ardent dislike of [Ulfric Stormcloak](Lore_Ulfric_Stormcloak.md). Laila was publicly a supporter of the [Stormcloaks](Lore_Stormcloaks.md); however, privately, she had little faith in Ulfric's leadership.<sup>[[1]](#cite_note-Skyrim-1)</sup>

#### King Laloriaran Dynar (?b - [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582))
[Laloriaran Dynar](Lore_Laloriaran_Dynar.md) (meaning "Ruler in Dark Times") was the famous **Last King of the Ayleids**. He ruled the city of [Nenalata](Lore_Nenalata.md) in [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) and later founded the city of [Bisnensel](Lore_Bisnensel.md) in [High Rock](Lore_High_Rock.md). In the [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md), he played a prominent role in stopping [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md)'s [Planemeld](Lore_Planemeld.md).

#### Lamae Bal (fl. mid/late Merethic Era - 2E 582)
[Lamae Beolfag](Lore_Lamae_Bal.md) (better known as **Lamae Bal** or the **Blood Matron**) was a [Nedic](Lore_Nede.md) priestess of [Arkay](Lore_Arkay.md), who was made the unwilling bride of [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md), and transformed into the first [vampire](Lore_Vampire.md) sometime between the middle and late [Merethic Era](Lore_Merethic_Era.md).<sup>[[nb 1]](#intnote_nb_1)</sup> She is the progenitor of a strain of vampirism caused by [Noxiphilic Sanguivoria](Lore_Disease.md#Noxiphilic_Sanguivoria). Over time, she discovered that as others fed from her and spread her curse, instead of becoming weaker she became stronger, her power multiplying as the number of her "children" grew. She is an enemy of both Molag Bal and Arkay.

Through blood and sorcery, Lamae altered her bloodline to create [Blood Scions](Lore_Blood_Scion.md), vampires whose strength almost rivals that of the vampire lords that were turned directly by Molag Bal. She embraces her condition, seeking to use it against her hated adversaries. She openly encourages vampires to feed freely upon the blood of mortals, and her alterations to the bloodline allow her children to become stronger by consuming blood.

#### Chief Larak (fl. 4E 201)
**Chief** [Larak](Lore_Larak.md) is the [Orc](Lore_Orc.md) chief of [Mor Khazgur](Lore_Mor_Khazgur.md) as of [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201), and a former member of the forces of the [Imperial Legion](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md).

#### Head Sapiarch Larnatille (fl. 2E 582)
[Larnatille](Lore_Larnatille.md) of [Lillandril](Lore_Lillandril.md) was an [Altmeri](Lore_Altmer.md) sage who held the position of Sapiarch of Arcanology and served as the head Sapiarch, the leader of the [College of Sapiarchs](Lore_College_of_Sapiarchs.md) as of [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582). She was a scholar and author, widely recognized as a remarkable authority in the realm of arcane knowledge.

#### Magnate Lein-Barduik (fl. 2E 5th century)
[Lein-Barduik](Lore_Lein-Barduik.md) was a former bodyguard of an heir of [Savirien-Chorak](Lore_Savirien-Chorak.md), Proconsul [Beloren-Kaie](Lore_Beloren-Kaie.md), and the founder and first magnate of the settlement of [Hakoshae](Lore_Hakoshae.md). He was the ancestor of Magnate Feina-Darak, who governed Hakoshae as of [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582).

#### Emperor Leovic ([2E 542](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_542) - [2E 577](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_577))
[Leovic](Lore_Leovic.md) was an [Emperor](Lore_Cyrodilic_Emperors.md) of [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) and the third and last emperor of the [Reachman](Lore_Reachmen.md) dynasty called the [Longhouse Emperors](Lore_Longhouse_Emperors.md), who ruled the [Empire of Cyrodiil](Lore_Empire_of_Cyrodiil_(Interregnum).md) during the [Interregnum](Lore_Interregnum.md). Leovic was described as the most Imperialized and cosmopolitan of the Longhouse Emperors due to being born in Cyrodiil and having rarely visited [the Reach](Lore_The_Reach.md). As the years went on, Leovic's reign was said to have gotten more and more troubled. He was preceded by his father, [Moricar](Lore_Moricar.md), and was succeeded by [Varen Aquilarios](Lore_Varen_Aquilarios.md).

#### King Lhotun ([3E 393](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_393) - ?d)
[Lhotun](Lore_Lhotun.md) was the King of the Kingdom of [Sentinel](Lore_Sentinel_(kingdom).md) at the end of the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md). He was born in [3E 393](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_393), the youngest child of King [Camaron](Lore_Camaron.md) and Queen [Akorithi](Lore_Akorithi.md). Lhotun was brother to [Arthago](Lore_Arthago.md), [Aubk-i](Lore_Aubk-i.md), and [Greklith](Lore_Greklith.md).

Some years after the [Warp in the West](Lore_Warp_in_the_West.md), Prince Greklith and Queen Akorithi both fell victim to a plague. Thus, Lhotun ascended to the throne, and became known as one of the most powerful leaders in [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md). The rapid expansion of Sentinel's domain following the [Miracle of Peace](Lore_Miracle_of_Peace.md) had brought many [Crown](Lore_Crown.md) sympathizers under the control of a [Forebear](Lore_Forebear.md) kingdom, forcing Lhotun to form what was considered a third party, dubbed the [Lhotunic movement](Lore_Lhotunics.md), to try and reconcile the two factions.

#### Lilatha (fl. 1E 2920 - 2E 582)
[Lilatha](Lore_Lilatha.md) was a [Psijic](Lore_Psijic_Order.md) monk and a former student of [Sotha Sil](Lore_Sotha_Sil.md). She held the position of **Psijic Master of the Gazing Glass** and served as Ritemaster's canvaroth, a scout in the service of the Order.

#### Lirulorne (fl. 1E 3rd century)
[Lirulorne](Lore_Lirulorne.md) was an [Ayleid](Lore_Ayleid.md) [smith](Lore_Smithing.md) of great renown. They lived in [Cyrod](Lore_Cyrodiil.md), during the final years of the [Ayleid Empire](Lore_Ayleid_Empire.md), the [Alessian Slave Rebellion](Lore_Alessian_Slave_Rebellion.md) and the onset of the [Alessian Empire](Lore_Alessian_Empire.md). Lirulorne survived the rebellion and continued their work following the victory of the [Nedes](Lore_Nede.md) in [1E 243](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_243). Shortly after the death of Alessia in [1E 266](Lore_First_Era.md#1E_266), they struck a handful of masterwork coins for the deceased empress's consort, [Morihaus](Lore_Morihaus.md). Some interpreted the gesture as reparations for humanity's long enslavement, others considered it a simple tribute.

#### Councilor Lleril Morvayn (fl. 4E 65 - 201)
The [House Redoran](Lore_House_Redoran.md) Councilor of [Raven Rock](Lore_Raven_Rock.md) and ruler of [Solstheim](Lore_Solstheim.md). His actual influence didn't spread far beyond Raven Rock without the resources of the [ebony](Lore_Ebony.md) mine. He took over from his mother, [Brara](Lore_Brara_Morvayn.md), in [4E 65](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_65), and was known as a fair and compassionate leader more concerned with the welfare of his people than his coffers. He was close friends with the Second Councilor of Raven Rock, Adril Arano, and Adril's wife Cindiri. Much of his history before [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201) is recounted in *[History of Raven Rock](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Lore:History_of_Raven_Rock)*. In that year, another attempt on his life by [House Hlaalu](Lore_House_Hlaalu.md) sympathizers was foiled, and the fortunes of Raven Rock improved with the re-opening of the ebony mine.<sup>[[2]](#cite_note-Dragonborn-2)</sup>

#### Archcanon Llevule Andrano (fl. 2E 582)
[Llevule Andrano](Lore_Llevule_Andrano.md) was a [Dark Elf](Lore_Dark_Elf.md) priest who lived in the mid- [Second Era](Lore_Second_Era.md). He played an important role in thwarting [Clavicus Vile](Lore_Clavicus_Vile.md)'s plot to drain [Vivec](Lore_Vivec_(god).md)'s divine energy, and once the crisis was over, he replaced [Tarvus](Lore_Tarvus.md) as the Archcanon of the [Tribunal Temple](Lore_Tribunal_Temple.md).

#### Saint Llothis the Pious (fl. before 2E 582)
[Saint Llothis the Pious](Lore_Llothis.md) is the [Dunmeri](Lore_Dunmer.md) patron [saint](Lore_Temple_Saints.md) of Tailors and Dyers and the patron saint of [House Dres](Lore_House_Dres.md). Contemporary and companion of the Tribunals, and the best-loved [Alma Rula](Lore_Alma_Rula.md) of the [Tribunal Temple](Lore_Tribunal_Temple.md), he formulated the central rituals and principles of the New Temple Faith. Saint Llothis is the symbolic mortal bridge between the gods and the faithful, and the archetypal priest. Llothis was canonized by the Tribunal, and shrines to him could be found in Tribunal temples. His [crosier](Lore_Crosier_of_St._Llothis.md) is now a prized relic of the [Tribunal Temple](Lore_Tribunal_Temple.md).

#### High King Logrolf (?b - [2E 431](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_431))
[Logrolf](Lore_Logrolf.md) was the High King of [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) during the final years of the [Akaviri Potentate](Lore_Akaviri_Potentate.md). At some point during his reign, Logrolf traveled to the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md) to pay his respects to Potentate [Savirien-Chorak](Lore_Savirien-Chorak.md). In the Imperial City, a reception was held for Logrolf in the city's Skyrim Embassy. In [2E 431](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_431), following the collapse of the [Second Empire](Lore_Second_Empire.md), Logrolf was assassinated, leaving his daughter, [Freydis](Lore_Freydis.md), as his heir presumptive. After Logrolf's assassination, Jarl [Svartr](Lore_Svartr.md) of [Solitude](Lore_Solitude.md) claimed that Freydis was illegitimate, ultimately causing a schism over the high kingship that resulted in the division of Skyrim between [Eastern Skyrim](Lore_Eastern_Skyrim.md), ruled by Freydis and her heirs, and [Western Skyrim](Lore_Western_Skyrim.md), ruled by Svartr and his successors. Logrolf was the last high king of a united Skyrim for at least the next one hundred fifty years. Following the start of the schism, many of the reminders of Logrolf's reign in Solitude were destroyed.

#### Lomegan Mariel (fl. 3E 398)
[Lomegan Mariel](Lore_Lomegan_Mariel.md) was Emperor [Uriel Septim VII](Lore_Uriel_Septim_VII.md)'s Imperial Secretary and Personal Liaison to the [Battlespire](Lore_Battlespire.md). During [Mehrunes Dagon](Lore_Mehrunes_Dagon.md)'s invasion of the Battlespire in [3E 398](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_398), [Sirran Angada](Lore_Sirran_Angada.md), a leechcrafter retainer of the false emperor [Jagar Tharn](Lore_Jagar_Tharn.md), used a special Transmorph spell to disguise themselves as Mariel to gain gateway access to the Battlespire, which allowed the forces of [Clan Dagon](Lore_Clan_Dagon.md) to conquer it.

Mariel was struck down and presumably killed after surrendering the Portal Keys of the [Weir Gate](Lore_Weir_Gate.md) to Angada.

#### Lord Lovidicus (?b - [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433))
[The Lord Lovidicus](Lore_Lovidicus.md) was an [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) nobleman of high birth who lived in [Cyrodiil](Lore_Cyrodiil.md) during the [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md). He was stricken with [vampirism](Lore_Vampirism.md) and became undead, but managed to hide his secret and continued to pose as a mortal. He resided in [Crowhaven](Lore_Crowhaven.md), a fort in [County Anvil](Lore_County_Anvil.md) on the [Gold Coast](Lore_Gold_Coast.md). Considering his status as a vampire nobleman, he was likely a member of the [Cyrodiil Vampyrum Order](Lore_Cyrodiil_Vampyrum_Order.md).

During the second or third century of the Third Era, Lovidicus became a vampire and spent the next two hundred years walking [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) with this condition. Lovidicus spent the latter half of his life guarding his secret, but he fell in love with an [Orc](Lore_Orc.md) servant named Luktuv gro-Malog around [3E 400](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_400). Miraculously, Lovidicus impregnated Luktuv, and they decided to name the child Agronak. Blinded by love, Lovidicus told Luktuv he was a vampire; however, she was appalled, so she locked him in his private quarters and fled the fort. He attempted to free himself but was unable to, and he slowly [went insane](Lore_Bloodfiend.md) as his hunger for blood grew. With Lovidicus locked away, Crowhaven fell into a state of disrepair, and the fort's burial halls became home to a group of feral vampires.

Luktuv moved to the [Imperial City](Lore_Imperial_City.md) and gave birth to their son [Agronak gro-Malog](Lore_Agronak_gro-Malog.md). Apparently gifted with inhuman abilities due to his father's vampirism, Agronak went on to become the Grand Champion of the Imperial City Arena and became famously known as the Gray Prince. Luktuv told Agronak the truth that his father was a nobleman but fabricated a story of being chased from the fort by a jealous "Lady Lovidicus" instead of telling him that his father was a vampire. There is no evidence that a Lady Lovidicus ever existed.

In [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433), Luktuv died. Before she passed away, she gave Agronak the key to the private quarters in Crowhaven, telling him it would unlock the secret of his birth. Agronak was anxious to prove his birthright and show the world that an Orc can be noble in blood as well as deed, but his training prevented him from journeying to Crowhaven. In his place, he sent [a fellow Arena combatant](Lore_Hero_of_Kvatch.md). They freed Lord Lovidicus, but after decades of hunger, the vampire attacked the combatant and was slain. The combatant located the [*Journal of the Lord Lovidicus*](Lore_Journal_of_the_Lord_Lovidicus.md) and returned it to Agronak. Although grateful, Agronak was devastated to learn that he was "a monster", and became suicidal. As a result, he made no attempt to fight back when challenged for his rank, and died in the Arena later that year.

Lovidicus is the only known case of a vampire fathering a child after having turned.

#### Lucien Lachance (?b - [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433))
[Lucien Lachance](Lore_Lucien_Lachance.md), an [Imperial](Lore_Imperial.md) assassin, was a Speaker for the [Black Hand](Lore_Black_Hand.md) of the [Dark Brotherhood](Lore_Dark_Brotherhood.md) in the late [Third Era](Lore_Third_Era.md). He was killed in [3E 433](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_433).

In his youth, Lachance traveled to [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md) and visited the city of [Riften](Lore_Riften.md). He was once in possession of the [Blade of Woe](Lore_Blade_of_Woe.md). He became the Speaker for the [Cheydinhal](Lore_Cheydinhal.md) Dark Brotherhood sanctuary when the previous Speaker was killed while fulfilling a contract. He took up residence in the abandoned [Fort Farragut](Lore_Fort_Farragut.md) just outside the city, and was responsible for recruiting new members to the sanctuary. He trained the [Shadowscales](Lore_Shadowscales.md) Ocheeva and Teinaava from when they were hatchlings. He was also the one to order the Purification of the sanctuary in 3E 433 when the Black Hand discovered that the Brotherhood had been infiltrated by a traitor. He named the [assassin](Lore_Hero_of_Kvatch.md) who carried out the Purification as his new Silencer, to replace his previous Silencer who had died carrying out a contract. He passed on his undead horse, [Shadowmere](Lore_Shadowmere.md), to the new Silencer.

His Silencer was subsequently manipulated by the true traitor, [Mathieu Bellamont](Lore_Mathieu_Bellamont.md). The Silencer then systematically assassinated half of the Black Hand, and, unknowingly, framed Lachance as the traitor. By the time Lachance had stopped his Silencer, [Ungolim](Lore_Ungolim.md), the Listener of the Dark Brotherhood, had already been slain. Lachance went into hiding while his Silencer attempted to clear his name, but the remaining members of the Black Hand tracked him down to an abandoned farmstead at [Applewatch](Lore_Applewatch.md) and murdered him. His Silencer took his place as Speaker, and was later named Listener by the [Night Mother](Lore_Night_Mother.md) when Bellamont attempted to destroy her and failed. The Night Mother would later clear Lucien's name.

In death, Lachance went to the [Void](Lore_Void.md) to join [Sithis](Lore_Sithis.md), the Dread Father of the Dark Brotherhood. Conflicting reports suggest that in [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201), his spirit was bound to the [new Listener](Lore_Last_Dragonborn.md) of the Dark Brotherhood. He could be summoned as a spectral assassin, to aid the Listener in combat or offer advice.

#### Luciana Pullo (fl. 1E 2712 - 2E 582)
[Proctor Luciana Pullo](Lore_Luciana_Pullo.md) was a high-ranking member of the [Clockwork Apostles](Lore_Clockwork_Apostles.md) during the mid-Second Era. In a previous life she served as battlemage and a lieutenant in [Reman Cyrodiil](Lore_Reman.md)'s army during the Akaviri Troubles and Valenwood annexation. She is said to have burned a whole regiment of [snake-men](Lore_Tsaesci_(race).md) to cinders at the siege of [Pale Pass](Lore_Pale_Pass.md), and earned the Tsaesci title, "Xhiado Kas", the Flame Maiden.

#### Lutea (fl. 2E 582)
[Lutea](Lore_Lutea.md) is a [Nereid](Lore_Nereid.md), and one of the spirits of lost nature inhabiting [Systres Archipelago](Lore_Systres_Archipelago.md). She was the oldest of the three spirits of lost nature who were rehabilitated and taken care of by the [Druids](Lore_Druid.md) of the [Stonelore Circle](Lore_Stonelore_Circle.md) in the underground tunnels of Deeproot within their sacred site of Earthen Root Enclave. She possessed a powerful ability to manipulate and control water and ice.

#### Chieftain Lydi Snowpelt (?b - [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582))
[Lydi Snowpelt](Lore_Lydi_Snowpelt.md) was one of the chieftains and leaders of the [Rageclaw Clan](Lore_Rageclaw_Clan.md). She was active in [2E 582](Lore_Second_Era.md#2E_582), participating in the Rageclaw Clan's invasion of [the Rift](Lore_The_Rift.md).

#### Lydia (fl. [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201))
[Lydia](Lore_Lydia.md) is a [Nord](Lore_Nord.md) housecarl who resided in [Whiterun](Lore_Whiterun.md), originally serving under Jarl [Balgruuf the Greater](Lore_Balgruuf_the_Greater.md). She became known for her sworn service to carry the [Dragonborn](Lore_Last_Dragonborn.md)'s burdens all across Skyrim.<sup>[[3]](#cite_note-Castles-3)</sup>

In [4E 201](Lore_Fourth_Era.md#4E_201), Lydia was appointed as a housecarl to the Last Dragonborn after they became a [Thane](Lore_Thane.md) of [Whiterun](Lore_Whiterun.md), as a reward for slaying the [dragon](Lore_Dragon.md) [Mirmulnir](Lore_Mirmulnir.md).<sup>[[4]](#cite_note-DA-4)</sup> Lydia explained that she was sworn to the Dragonborn and that she would guard the Dragonborn and all they owned with her life.<sup>[[5]](#cite_note-SRLydia-5)</sup>

#### Lyranth (?b - ?d)
[Lyranth the Foolkiller](Lore_Lyranth.md) is a powerful [Dremora](Lore_Dremora.md) and a prominent member of [Foolkillers Clan](Lore_Foolkillers_Clan.md) of [Coldharbour](Lore_Coldharbour.md). She serves [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md), and views him as the true master of all Dremora. Lyranth's [paleonymic](Lore_Nymic.md) is **Wehkehpneht-kamdo**. She views most other Daedra with disdain, although she sees the [Xivkyn](Lore_Xivkyn.md) as potential allies that are held back by their [Xivilai](Lore_Xivilai.md) blood. Lyranth is a vengeful individual. Any being that she truly hates is documented in her Oghma of Inevitable Retribution.

Lyranth has a relatively positive view on mortals. While she sees weakness in their needs to rest, form attachments, and their tendencies to make assumptions of things beyond their scope of understanding, she acknowledges their positive traits, such as their unpredictability and their inclination to innovate. She also admires ambition, a prime example being that of [Reman](Lore_Reman.md), who had a successful campaign to conquer Tamriel. She finds beauty in the [mortal plane](Lore_Mundus.md), seeing it as a "delightful playground" built by the foolish act of the [Aedra](Lore_Aedra.md) which diminished them, a sacrifice admired by even Daedra such as herself. She holds the [Magna Ge](Lore_Magna_Ge.md) in great disgust for not finishing their work, as if they had further aided the Aedra in their quest, they could have achieved something greater. She however pities mortals that follow the Aedra, seeing their worship as unwarranted, as they are not as active beings as the Daedra.

Lyranth has seemingly gathered a cult following, earning the title of **Dread Lady**. Her (possibly self-proclaimed) prophet, Rogatus Cinna, teaches those that are willing to listen about his mistress. He and his sister, Rogatina Cinna, also act as messengers for Lyranth at her behest. Ironically, Lyranth sees Daedric cultists as deluded.

#### Lyrezi (fl. mid/late Merethic Era - 2E 582)
A [Nede](Lore_Nede.md) from ancient [Skyrim](Lore_Skyrim.md), Lyrezi was a member of the nomadic tribe who came across [Lamae Bal](Lore_Lamae_Bal.md) after she had been infected with [vampirism](Lore_Vampirism.md). He was involved in her attempted cremation, and was brutally raped when she awoke on the pyre. The [Lyrezi](Lore_Lyrezi.md) vampire bloodline was named after him, implying he was infected with vampirism.

#### Lyrisius (fl. 1E)
Lyrisius was a hero of the [First Era](Lore_First_Era.md). He was responsible for defeating the [Akaviri](Lore_Akaviri.md) [slavetraders](Lore_Slavery.md) and was known for wielding [Fearstruck](Lore_Fearstruck.md). His tale is recounted in *[The Story of Lyrisius](Lore_The_Story_of_Lyrisius.md)*.<sup>[[6]](#cite_note-TSOL-6)</sup><sup>[[7]](#cite_note-ESO-7)</sup>

#### Lyris Titanborn (fl. 2E)
**Lyris Titanborn** was a [Nord](Lore_Nord.md) with [giant](Lore_Giant.md) ancestry and the personal bodyguard of Emperor [Varen Aquilarios](Lore_Varen_Aquilarios.md). She easily towers over other members of her race and dwarfs even the tallest race in Tamriel, the High Elves.

Lyris was born to Alyr Golden-Hair and the giant-blooded Nord, Gjalder. Her mother died during childbirth, leaving her father to raise his considerably large infant daughter alone. At the age of fifteen, she ran away from home and joined the [Imperial Legion](Lore_Imperial_Legion.md). She faced endless ridicule from her peers due to her large stature. She was hated and feared by some, but she endured, and eventually met Varen Aquilarios. She subsequently aided him in his revolution, and joined him, [Mannimarco](Lore_Mannimarco.md), [Abnur Tharn](Lore_Abnur_Tharn.md) and [Sai Sahan](Lore_Sai_Sahan.md) as one of the [Five Companions](Lore_Five_Companions.md) in search of the [Amulet of Kings](Lore_Amulet_of_Kings.md).

She was imprisoned in [Coldharbour](Lore_Coldharbour.md) following the calamity known as the [Soulburst](Lore_Soulburst.md). With Varen's disappearance during the event, she and Sai Sahan were suspected of murdering him and stealing the [Amulet of Kings](Lore_Amulet_of_Kings.md). She and Sai had romantic feelings for one another, with Sai giving her the nickname "**Snow Lily**".

In Coldharbour, she led the [Soul Shriven](Lore_Soul_Shriven.md) in an uprising against their captors, and together with [the Vestige](Lore_The_Vestige.md), they fought their way to save Lyris' friend and ally, the Prophet. She offered herself in place of the Prophet to enable him and the Vestige escape from the realm. They eventually returned to save her, and the three banded together in a quest to save [Tamriel](Lore_Tamriel.md) from the invasion of [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md).

#### King Lysandus ([3E 354](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_354) - [3E 403](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_403))
[King Lysandus](Lore_Lysandus.md), also known as **the Dragon of Daggerfall**, was the ruler of the Kingdom of [Daggerfall](Lore_Daggerfall_(kingdom).md). He was the son of King [Arslan II](Lore_Arslan_II.md) and Queen [Nulfaga](Lore_Nulfaga.md), and husband of Queen [Mynisera](Lore_Mynisera.md), with whom he had a son, [Gothryd](Lore_Gothryd.md). As king, Lysandus was a trusted vassal and friend of [Uriel Septim VII](Lore_Uriel_Septim_VII.md). Although his loyalty to the [Empire](Lore_Third_Empire.md) was assured, he was not so faithful to Mynisera; the king was secretly in love with his mistress, the court sorceress of Daggerfall, [Medora Direnni](Lore_Medora_Direnni.md).

During Lysandus' rule, Daggerfall was one of the dominant kingdoms in the [Iliac Bay](Lore_Iliac_Bay.md) region, along with [Sentinel](Lore_Sentinel_(kingdom).md) and [Wayrest](Lore_Wayrest_(kingdom).md). However, there were often clashes between these powers, and it was a petty land dispute with Sentinel that erupted into the full-scale war that cut short Lysandus' life. The king was killed during the [War of Betony](Lore_War_of_Betony.md) in [3E 403](Lore_Third_Era.md#3E_403); while the exact details are vague, historians from both sides of the conflict record that when the armies of Daggerfall and Sentinel met at [Cryngaine Field](Lore_Cryngaine_Field.md), a mysterious fog descended upon the battlefield. When it lifted, Lysandus was found dead, shot in the throat by an archer's arrow.

In truth, Lysandus died the night before the battle, the victim of a Wayrest assassin's blade. Prince Gothryd succeeded his father as King of Daggerfall, though Lysandus' restless spirit returned to haunt the city of [Daggerfall](Lore_Daggerfall.md) for some time after his death until a mysterious [adventurer](Lore_Hero.md#The_Agent) avenged his murder.

## References
1. [^](#cite_ref-Skyrim_1-0) Events of *[Skyrim](Skyrim_Skyrim.md)*
2. [^](#cite_ref-Dragonborn_2-0) Events of *[Skyrim](Skyrim_Skyrim.md): [Dragonborn](Skyrim_Dragonborn.md)*
3. [^](#cite_ref-Castles_3-0) [Lydia](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Castles:Lydia)'s description in *[Castles](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Castles:Castles)*
4. [^](#cite_ref-DA_4-0) Events of [Dragon Rising](Skyrim_Dragon_Rising.md) in *[Skyrim](Skyrim_Skyrim.md)*
5. [^](#cite_ref-SRLydia_5-0) [Lydia](Skyrim_Lydia.md)'s dialogue in *[Skyrim](Skyrim_Skyrim.md)*
6. [^](#cite_ref-TSOL_6-0) [*The Story of Lyrisius*](Lore_The_Story_of_Lyrisius.md) — [Bresne Smythe](Lore_Books_by_Author.md#Bresne_Smythe)
7. [^](#cite_ref-ESO_7-0) [Fearstruck](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Fearstruck_Style) outfit style in [ESO](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Online:Online)