# Radiant

[Skyrim](Skyrim_Skyrim.md) uses a **Radiant** system for dynamically generating game content. This helps to make each playthrough unique, but it is also designed to try and get you to visit each location at least once.

## Quests
The Radiant quest system is a [quest](Skyrim_Quests.md) generator that creates quests from a series of components such as location, enemy type, and reward. Some of these components are randomized, but not all. The randomized components are generated every time that the quest is triggered. Radiant quests are used throughout the game in various [faction](Skyrim_Factions.md) questlines and in [miscellaneous quests](Skyrim_Miscellaneous_Quests.md).

This quest system cannot create large, complicated, or particularly interesting quests, but it can create a near infinite number of quests with a fraction of the time and effort required to create a traditional one. It works with a system that aims to send you to a location that you have not yet discovered, and it also works to keep you engaged with fresh and interesting discoveries.

### Quest Locations
Most radiant quests have a set of about a dozen possible locations where you may be sent. Typically, those locations are selected based on the location's occupants or hold. For example, a quest might take place in any [Hagraven](Skyrim_Hagraven.md) nest or any [Bandit](Skyrim_Bandit.md) camp in [Falkreath Hold](Skyrim_Falkreath_Hold.md). In these cases, the quest page contains a list of all possible locations, and it is listed as a related quest on the page describing each of those locations.

However, some radiant quests have a much longer list of possible locations. All such quests are listed here, but they are *not* listed on each possible location page.

#### Activities/Tutorials
The radiant activities on this list display no information in your quest log, and with the exception of brawling per the activity [Fight! Fight!](Skyrim_Fight!_Fight!.md), are repeatable and can be easily completed without any skill use. The tutorial quests do not give you any advantage in using their respective skills, and can only be completed once.

- **[Alchemy Tutorial](Skyrim_Alchemy_Tutorial.md)**: Learn the basics of potion making.
- **[Blacksmithing Tutorial](Skyrim_Blacksmithing_Tutorial.md)**: Learn the basics of [smithing](Skyrim_Smithing.md).
- **[Chop Wood](Skyrim_Chop_Wood.md)**: Get paid to chop firewood.
- **[Fight! Fight!](Skyrim_Fight!_Fight!.md)**: Prove your strength by wagering on a fist fight with another.
- **[Gather Wheat](Skyrim_Gather_Wheat.md)**: Get paid to gather crops.
- **[Mine Ore](Skyrim_Mine_Ore.md)**: Get paid to [mine](Skyrim_Mining.md) ore.
- **[Quest all Beggars Have](Skyrim_Quest_all_Beggars_Have.md)**: Take pity on a beggar.
- **[Quest all Drunks Have](Skyrim_Quest_all_Drunks_Have.md)**: Make a drunk dance for joy.

#### Dungeons
- **[A New Order](Skyrim_A_New_Order.md)**<sup>[DG](Skyrim_Dawnguard.md)</sup>: Recruit [Isran](Skyrim_Isran.md)'s old allies for the [Dawnguard](Skyrim_Dawnguard_(faction).md). - Animal hideouts (11 possible dungeons)
- **[Aftershock](Skyrim_Aftershock.md)**: Put an end to the rupture caused by the Eye of Magnus. - Anywhere in the wilderness
- **[Alteration Ritual Spell](Skyrim_Alteration_Ritual_Spell.md)**: Acquire [Kahvozein's Fang](Skyrim_Kahvozein%27s_Fang.md) and use it to get [heartscales](Skyrim_Dragon_Heartscales.md) from a [dragon](Skyrim_Dragon.md) for [Tolfdir](Skyrim_Tolfdir.md). - Ruins with a dragon priest and a boss chest (6 possible dungeons)
- **[Amulet of the Moon](Skyrim_Amulet_of_the_Moon.md)**: Find the [Moon Amulet](Skyrim_Moon_Amulet.md) for [Kharjo](Skyrim_Kharjo.md). - Any bandit hideout that contains a boss chest (24+ possible dungeons)
- **[Amulets of Night Power](Skyrim_Amulets_of_Night_Power.md)**<sup>[DG](Skyrim_Dawnguard.md)</sup>: Retrieve the Amulets of Night Power. - 2 random dungeons (1 per amulet)
- **[Ancient Power](Skyrim_Ancient_Power.md)**<sup>[DG](Skyrim_Dawnguard.md)</sup>: Retrieve [vampire parts](Skyrim_Ancient_Vampire_Arm.md) from varied locations around Skyrim. - Any dungeon that contains a boss chest (140+ possible dungeons)
- **[Ancient Technology](Skyrim_Ancient_Technology.md)**<sup>[DG](Skyrim_Dawnguard.md)</sup>: Retrieve Dwemer schematics to improve technology for the [Dawnguard](Skyrim_Dawnguard_(faction).md). - Any bandit camp or dwarven ruin
- **[Animal Extermination (B)](Skyrim_Animal_Extermination_(B).md)**: Fulfill a contract given to the [Companions](Skyrim_Companions.md) to clear out a beast den. - Animal hideouts (18+ possible dungeons)
- **[Arniel's Endeavor](Skyrim_Arniel%27s_Endeavor.md)**: Uncover an ancient Dwemer secret. - Dungeon with a boss chest (Part 2; 15+ possible dungeons)
- Dungeon with a dead courier (Part 4; 16 possible dungeons)
- **[Azra's Staffs](Skyrim_Azra%27s_Staffs.md)**<sup>[DB](Skyrim_Dragonborn.md)</sup>: Retrieve a staff made by [Azra Nightwielder](Lore_Azra_Nightwielder.md) for Master [Neloth](Skyrim_Neloth.md). - Any dungeon that contains a boss chest (140+ possible dungeons)
- **[Bandit Attack](Skyrim_Bandit_Attack.md)**<sup>[HF](Skyrim_Hearthfire.md)</sup>: Rescue your beloved from kidnappers. - Dungeon in the same hold as your player-built house (8 possible dungeons)
- **[Bounty: Bandit Boss](Skyrim_Bounty__Bandit_Boss.md)**: Eliminate a bandit leader for a bounty reward. - Many dungeons that have a bandit leader (25+ possible locations)
- **[Bounty: Dragon](Skyrim_Bounty__Dragon.md)**: Kill a [dragon](Skyrim_Dragon.md) in its [lair](Skyrim_Dragon_Lairs.md). - Dragon lairs (10 possible locations)
- **[Bounty: Forsworn](Skyrim_Bounty__Forsworn.md)**: Kill a [Forsworn](Skyrim_Forsworn.md) leader for a bounty reward. - Dungeons in the Reach with a Forsworn leader (12+ possible locations)
- **[Bounty: Giant](Skyrim_Bounty__Giant.md)**: Kill a problematic [giant](Skyrim_Giant.md) for a bounty reward. - All [giant camps](Skyrim_Giant_Camps.md) (12 possible locations)
- **[Cleansing Light](Skyrim_Cleansing_Light.md)**<sup>[DG](Skyrim_Dawnguard.md)</sup>: Kill the boss of a [vampire](Skyrim_Vampire.md) lair. - Vampire lairs (10 possible dungeons)
- **[Culling the Beast](Skyrim_Culling_the_Beast.md)**<sup>[DG](Skyrim_Dawnguard.md)</sup>: Kill the thin-blooded [vampires](Skyrim_Vampire.md). - Vampire lairs (10 possible dungeons)
- **[Dragon Hunting](Skyrim_Dragon_Hunting.md)**: Kill a [dragon](Skyrim_Dragon.md) at its [lair](Skyrim_Dragon_Lairs.md). - Dragon lairs (10 possible locations)
- **[Dragon Seekers](Skyrim_Dragon_Seekers.md)**: Go to a [dragon lair](Skyrim_Dragon_Lairs.md) with [Farkas](Skyrim_Farkas.md) or [Vilkas](Skyrim_Vilkas.md) and kill the dragon. - All dragon lairs (11 possible dungeons)
- **[Dungeon Delving (Bandits)](Skyrim_Dungeon_Delving_(Bandits).md)**: Do a favor by retrieving an item from a bandit hideout. - Bandit hideouts with a boss chest (10 possible dungeons)
- **[Dungeon Delving (Caves)](Skyrim_Dungeon_Delving_(Caves).md)**: Do a favor by retrieving an item from a cave. - Cave hideouts with a boss chest (20+ possible dungeons)
- **[Dungeon Delving (Jarl - Caves)](Skyrim_Dungeon_Delving_(Jarl_-_Caves).md)**: Do a favor for [Jarl Korir](Skyrim_Korir.md) by retrieving the [Helm of Winterhold](Skyrim_Helm_of_Winterhold.md). - Cave hideouts with a boss chest (10 possible dungeons)
- **[Dungeon Delving (Jarl - Hagravens)](Skyrim_Dungeon_Delving_(Jarl_-_Hagravens).md)**: Do a favor for [Igmund](Skyrim_Igmund.md), the Jarl of Markarth, by retrieving a [shield](Skyrim_Hrolfdir%27s_Shield.md). - Hagraven hideouts in the Reach (5 possible dungeons)
- **[Family Heirloom](Skyrim_Family_Heirloom.md)**: Fulfill a contract for the [Companions](Skyrim_Companions.md) to retrieve a stolen family heirloom. - Most dungeons that have a boss chest (75+ possible dungeons)
- **[Fetch me that Book!](Skyrim_Fetch_me_that_Book!.md)**: Fetch a book for [Urag gro-Shub](Skyrim_Urag_gro-Shub.md). - Any [dungeon](Skyrim_Dungeons.md) that contains a boss chest (140+ possible dungeons)
- **[Harsh Master](Skyrim_Harsh_Master.md)**: Take care of a runaway crew member. - Bandit hideouts (7 possible dungeons)
- **[Hunting the Monster](Skyrim_Hunting_the_Monster.md)**<sup>[DG](Skyrim_Dawnguard.md)</sup>: Destroy the [vampire](Skyrim_Vampire.md) target. - Any bandit camp or warlock lair
- **[Kill the Bandit Leader](Skyrim_Kill_the_Bandit_Leader.md)**: Do a favor by slaying a bandit leader. - Bandit hideouts (11 possible dungeons)
- **[Kill the Bandit Leader (Jarl)](Skyrim_Kill_the_Bandit_Leader_(Jarl).md)**: Slay a [bandit](Skyrim_Bandit.md) leader for [Siddgeir](Skyrim_Siddgeir.md), the [Jarl](Skyrim_Jarl.md) of [Falkreath](Skyrim_Falkreath.md). - Bandit hideouts (5 possible dungeons)
- **[Kill the Forsworn Leader](Skyrim_Kill_the_Forsworn_Leader_(Jarl).md)**: Do a favor for [Jarl Igmund](Skyrim_Igmund.md) by killing a [Forsworn](Skyrim_Forsworn.md) leader. - Forsworn encampments (8 possible dungeons)
- **[Kill the Giant](Skyrim_Kill_the_Giant_(Jarl).md)**: Do a favor for the [Jarl](Skyrim_Jarl.md) of [Dawnstar](Skyrim_Dawnstar.md) by killing a [giant](Skyrim_Giant.md). - Giant camps (3 possible dungeons)
- **[Lisbet's Missing Shipment](Skyrim_Lisbet%27s_Missing_Shipment.md)**: Retrieve a missing Dibella Statue for a struggling store. - Forsworn encampments (8 possible dungeons)
- **[Lost Relic](Skyrim_Lost_Relic.md)**<sup>[DG](Skyrim_Dawnguard.md)</sup>: Retrieve a relic of the original [Dawnguard](Skyrim_Dawnguard_(faction).md). - Most dungeons that have a boss chest (65+ possible dungeons)
- **[Onmund's Request](Skyrim_Onmund%27s_Request.md)**: Help [Onmund](Skyrim_Onmund.md) negotiate the return of a family amulet from [Enthir](Skyrim_Enthir.md). - Any hideout with a boss chest (22+ possible dungeons)
- **[Preemptive Strike](Skyrim_Preemptive_Strike.md)**<sup>[DG](Skyrim_Dawnguard.md)</sup>: Destroy the [vampire](Skyrim_Vampire.md) before it turns its allies. - Any bandit camp or warlock lair
- **[Protecting the Bloodline](Skyrim_Protecting_the_Bloodline.md)**<sup>[DG](Skyrim_Dawnguard.md)</sup>: Destroy the [vampire](Skyrim_Vampire.md) before it turns its allies. - Any bandit camp or warlock lair
- **[Rings of Blood Magic](Skyrim_Rings_of_Blood_Magic.md)**<sup>[DG](Skyrim_Dawnguard.md)</sup>: Retrieve the [Ring of the Erudite](Skyrim_Ring_of_the_Erudite.md) and the [Ring of The Beast](Skyrim_Ring_of_The_Beast.md). - 2 random dungeons (1 per ring)
- **[Rescue Mission](Skyrim_Rescue_Mission.md)**: Fulfill a contract given to the [Companions](Skyrim_Companions.md) to rescue a kidnapped citizen. - Most dungeons that have a boss enemy and a place to lock up a captive (50+ possible dungeons)
- **[Retrieval](Skyrim_Retrieval.md)**: Journey to a random location to retrieve a fragment of [Wuuthrad](Skyrim_Wuuthrad.md). - Silver Hand hideouts (11 possible dungeons)
- **[Rubbish Retrieval](Skyrim_Rubbish_Retrieval.md)**<sup>[CC](Skyrim_Fishing.md)</sup>: Fish up junk to clean the waterways. - 4 possible hold capitals
- **[Salty Sea-Dogs](Skyrim_Salty_Sea-Dogs.md)**: Find some [void salts](Skyrim_Fine-Cut_Void_Salts.md) for an inexperienced [sea captain](Skyrim_Captain_Wayfinder.md). - 8 possible dungeons
- **[Shalidor's Insights](Skyrim_Shalidor%27s_Insights.md)**: Discover the writings of Shalidor and benefit from his wisdom. - Any dungeon that contains a boss chest (140+ possible dungeons)
- **[Shout - learn about word wall](Skyrim_Shout_-_learn_about_word_wall.md)**: Explore a location and learn a [Word of Power](Skyrim_Word_of_Power.md). - Almost any dungeon or dragon lair that contains a word wall (30+ possible locations)
- **[Stealing Plans](Skyrim_Stealing_Plans.md)**: Search a Silver Hand hideout for information on the location of their headquarters. - Silver Hand hideouts (11 possible dungeons)
- **[Striking the Heart](Skyrim_Striking_the_Heart.md)**: Assassinate a leader of the Silver Hand. - Silver Hand hideouts (10 possible dungeons)
- **[The Break of Dawn](Skyrim_The_Break_of_Dawn.md)**: Find [Meridia's Beacon](Skyrim_Meridia%27s_Beacon.md) and use its light to cleanse her [temple](Skyrim_Kilkreath_Ruins.md) of undead. - [Meridia's Beacon](Skyrim_Meridia%27s_Beacon.md), needed at the start of the quest, can be located in nearly any location that contains a boss chest (150+ possible locations)
- **[The Forgemaster's Fingers](Skyrim_The_Forgemaster%27s_Fingers.md)**: Find [the Forgemaster's Fingers](Skyrim_The_Forgemaster%27s_Fingers_(item).md) to gain favor with the Orcs. - Many dungeons, dependent on the hold from which you receive the quest (30+ possible locations)
- **[The Ghost of Old Hroldan](Skyrim_The_Ghost_of_Old_Hroldan.md)**: Put an [ancient ghost](Skyrim_Ghost_of_Old_Hroldan.md) to rest. - Dungeons in the Reach with a boss chest (15+ possible dungeons)
- **[The House of Horrors](Skyrim_The_House_of_Horrors.md)**: Help [Molag Bal](Lore_Molag_Bal.md) take revenge upon a servant of [Boethiah](Lore_Boethiah.md). - Dungeons in the Reach with a Forsworn leader (8+ possible dungeons)
- **[The Words of Power](Skyrim_The_Words_of_Power.md)**: Follow the [Greybeards](Skyrim_Greybeards.md)' advice to learn a [Word of Power](Skyrim_Word_of_Power.md) from a [word wall](Skyrim_Word_Wall.md). - Almost any dungeon or dragon lair that contains a [word wall](Skyrim_Word_Wall.md) (30+ possible locations)
- **[Totems of Hircine](Skyrim_Totems_of_Hircine.md)**: Journey to the given location to find a Totem of Hircine. - Many dungeons that have a boss chest (33 possible dungeons)
- **[Trouble in Skyrim](Skyrim_Trouble_in_Skyrim.md)**: Fulfill a contract for the [Companions](Skyrim_Companions.md) to clear out a troublesome area. - Most dungeons that have a boss enemy (115+ possible dungeons)
- **[Wind and Sand](Skyrim_Wind_and_Sand_(quest).md)**<sup>[DB](Skyrim_Dragonborn.md)</sup>: Retrieve a copy of *[Wind and Sand](Skyrim_Wind_and_Sand_(book).md)* for [Neloth](Skyrim_Neloth.md). - Any Dragon lair, dragon priest lair, draugr crypt, Falmer hive, Forsworn camp, hagraven nest, vampire lair, or warlock lair.

#### Houses
- **[Animal Extermination (A)](Skyrim_Animal_Extermination_(A).md)**: Fulfill a contract given to the [Companions](Skyrim_Companions.md) to kill an invading beast. - Most houses (not inns) occupied by regular citizens (40+ possible houses)
- **[The Burglary Job](Skyrim_The_Burglary_Job.md)**: Steal a special item from a wealthy home. - All wealthy homes (25+ possible houses)
- **[The Shill Job](Skyrim_The_Shill_Job.md)**: Place an item as evidence inside a wealthy home. - All wealthy homes (25+ possible houses)
- **[The Sweep Job](Skyrim_The_Sweep_Job.md)**: Steal three specific valuable items from a wealthy house. - All wealthy homes (25+ possible houses)

#### Stores/businesses
- **[The Heist Job](Skyrim_The_Heist_Job.md)**: Steal a particular item from a store. - Most stores with a strongbox (25+ possible stores)
- **[The Numbers Job](Skyrim_The_Numbers_Job.md)**: Alter the business ledger of a store. - Most stores with a ledger (25+ possible stores)

#### Stores/homes
- **[The Bedlam Job](Skyrim_The_Bedlam_Job.md)**: Steal a set amount of gold's worth of items. - Any major hold capital

### Quest NPCs
Most radiant quests only involve a limited number of NPCs. In some cases, there may be a few different quest-givers, in which case those quest-givers are listed on each quest page, and the quest is listed under each NPC's list of related quests.

However, cases where any one of a large number of possible randomly chosen NPCs are listed here. These quests are *not* listed on each possible NPC page. Note that quests tied to the NPC's home (rather than specifically to the NPC) are listed under [Quest Locations](#Quest_Locations).

#### Quest Givers
- **[The Forgemaster's Fingers](Skyrim_The_Forgemaster%27s_Fingers.md)**: Find [the Forgemaster's Fingers](Skyrim_The_Forgemaster%27s_Fingers_(item).md) to gain favor with the Orcs. - Any Orc living in an [Orc Stronghold](Skyrim_Orc_Strongholds.md)
- All **[Bounty Quests](Skyrim_Bounty_Quests.md)** - Any innkeeper, jarl, or steward

#### Quest Targets
- **[A Few Words with You](Skyrim_A_Few_Words_with_You.md)**: Do a favor by talking to someone about a problem. - 6 possible NPCs
- **[A Jarl's Justice](Skyrim_A_Jarl%27s_Justice.md)**<sup>[DG](Skyrim_Dawnguard.md)</sup>: Kill a [vampire](Skyrim_Vampire.md) masquerading as a [Visiting Advisor](Skyrim_Visiting_Advisor.md). - Any hold capital
- **[Animal Extermination (A)](Skyrim_Animal_Extermination_(A).md)**: Fulfill a contract given to the [Companions](Skyrim_Companions.md) to kill an invading beast. - Most regular town citizens who have a home (60+ possible NPCs)
- **[Deceiving the Herd](Skyrim_Deceiving_the_Herd.md)**<sup>[DG](Skyrim_Dawnguard.md)</sup>: Frame the [Dawnguard](Skyrim_Dawnguard_(faction).md) for murder. - Residents of a major hold capital (50+ possible NPCs)
- **[Delivery](Skyrim_Delivery.md)**: Deliver an item to an associate. - 6 possible NPCs
- **[Enchanting Pick-Up](Skyrim_Enchanting_Pick-Up.md)**: [Sergius](Skyrim_Sergius_Turrianus.md) wants you to pick up an item from a client for enchanting. - Many citizens living in cities (55+ possible NPCs)
- **[Escaped Criminal](Skyrim_Escaped_Criminal.md)**: Fulfill a contract given to the [Companions](Skyrim_Companions.md) to hunt down an escaped [criminal](Skyrim_Criminal.md). - Anywhere in the wilderness
- **[Further Study](Skyrim_Further_Study.md)**<sup>[CC](Skyrim_Fishing.md)</sup>: Collect a fish to help an alchemist experiment with potions. - Most alchemists (13+ possible NPCs)
- **[Hide and Seek](Skyrim_Hide_and_Seek_(quest).md)**<sup>[DG](Skyrim_Dawnguard.md)</sup>: Kill a [vampire](Skyrim_Vampire.md) masquerading as a citizen. - A vampire in a random town or settlement
- **[Hired Muscle](Skyrim_Hired_Muscle.md)**: Fulfill a contract for the [Companions](Skyrim_Companions.md) to bring a citizen back in line. - Most citizens in the game (400+ possible NPCs)
- **[Hunting the Monster](Skyrim_Hunting_the_Monster.md)**<sup>[DG](Skyrim_Dawnguard.md)</sup>: Destroy the [vampire](Skyrim_Vampire.md) target. - Most citizens in the game (for the initial target, the person who gives the location of the vampire)
- **[New Allegiances](Skyrim_New_Allegiances.md)**<sup>[DG](Skyrim_Dawnguard.md)</sup>: Turn the target into a [vampire](Skyrim_Vampire.md). - 3 possible NPCs
- **[Rare Gifts](Skyrim_Rare_Gifts.md)**: Do a favor by finding a rare item. - 6 possible NPCs
- **[Rescue](Skyrim_Rescue.md)**<sup>[DG](Skyrim_Dawnguard.md)</sup>: Rescue a victim from [vampires](Skyrim_Vampire.md). - Any NPC with a relationship rank of at least 1 with you and is not part of any of the factions excluded from selection
- **[Rescue Mission](Skyrim_Rescue_Mission.md)**: Fulfill a contract given to the [Companions](Skyrim_Companions.md) to rescue a kidnapped citizen. - Most citizens in the game (235+ possible NPCs)
- **[Some Light Theft](Skyrim_Some_Light_Theft.md)**: Do a favor by stealing an item. - 3 possible NPCs
- **[Stocking Up](Skyrim_Stocking_Up.md)**<sup>[CC](Skyrim_Fishing.md)</sup>: An innkeeper is in need of some fish. - Most innkeepers (18+ possible NPCs)
- **[The Dark Brotherhood Forever](Skyrim_The_Dark_Brotherhood_Forever.md)**: Yet another child has prayed to their [mother](Skyrim_Night_Mother.md). - Assassination targets (10 possible NPCs)
- **[The Fishing Job](Skyrim_The_Fishing_Job.md)**: Steal an item out of a target's pocket. - Most citizens living in a major city
- **[The Hunt](Skyrim_The_Hunt.md)**<sup>[DG](Skyrim_Dawnguard.md)</sup>: Kill the [Dawnguard](Skyrim_Dawnguard_(faction).md) spy masquerading as a citizen. - Anywhere in the wilderness

#### [World Interactions](Skyrim_World_Interactions.md) triggered by NPCs
- **[An enemy's gratitude](Skyrim_An_enemy%27s_gratitude.md)**: Experience the rewards for killing someone. - An NPC whose enemy you have killed (70+ possible NPCs)
- **[Inheritance](Skyrim_Inheritance.md)**: A friend has died. - Any NPC you befriended who is dead (80+ possible NPCs)
- **[Revenge, Hired Thugs](Skyrim_Revenge,_Hired_Thugs.md)**: Experience the consequences of killing someone. - Any NPC whose relative you have murdered
- **[Scare my Enemy](Skyrim_Scare_my_Enemy.md)**: Assault a target.
- **[Steal, Thugs hunt player](Skyrim_Steal,_Thugs_hunt_player.md)**: Experience the consequences of stealing from someone. - Any NPC from whom you steal, even if you are not caught

## NPCs and Creatures
Many NPCs and creatures have characteristics that are randomly generated. Although past Elder Scrolls games have used leveled lists to generate generic enemies, in Skyrim that ability now extends to named and unique characters.

For example, [Krev the Skinner](Skyrim_Krev_the_Skinner.md) is the boss bandit for the quest [The Silver Hand](Skyrim_The_Silver_Hand.md). Although they will always be a bandit, Krev's race is randomly determined from a leveled list of possible bandit bosses. In this case, even Krev's gender is randomly determined. ([Aela the Huntress](Skyrim_Aela_the_Huntress.md) will let you know what gender Krev is when you get close enough.)

Another example is [Movarth Piquine](Skyrim_Movarth_Piquine.md), the boss vampire for the quest [Laid to Rest](Skyrim_Laid_to_Rest.md). Although Movarth is always a vampire, his race is randomly determined from a leveled list of possible vampire bosses. (Movarth loses this feature with the [Dawnguard](Skyrim_Dawnguard.md) add-on, and now always appears as a Nord.)

## Quest Dungeons
This is a list of dungeons you may have to visit to finish a radiant quest.

### Caves
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Bleakcoast Cave](Skyrim_Bleakcoast_Cave.md)** — A small [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) east-southeast of [Winterhold](Skyrim_Winterhold.md) containing [frost trolls](Skyrim_Frost_Troll.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Bleakcoast+Cave)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Blind Cliff Cave](Skyrim_Blind_Cliff_Cave.md)** — A medium-sized [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) southwest of [Karthwasten](Skyrim_Karthwasten.md) along the banks of the [Karth River](Skyrim_Karth_River.md) containing [Forsworn](Skyrim_Forsworn.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Blind+Cliff+Cave)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Bloated Man's Grotto](Skyrim_Bloated_Man%27s_Grotto.md)** — A small [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) north of [Falkreath](Skyrim_Falkreath.md) containing [animals](Skyrim_Animals.md) and [spriggans](Skyrim_Spriggan.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Bloated+Man%27s+Grotto)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Bonechill Passage](Skyrim_Bonechill_Passage.md)** — A small [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) east of [Falkreath](Skyrim_Falkreath.md) containing leveled [animals](Skyrim_Animals.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Bonechill+Passage)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Boulderfall Cave](Skyrim_Boulderfall_Cave.md)** — A small [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) northwest of [Riften](Skyrim_Riften.md) containing [necromancers](Skyrim_Necromancer.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Boulderfall+Cave)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Brittleshin Pass](Skyrim_Brittleshin_Pass.md)** — A small [passage](Skyrim_Caves.md) through the mountains between [Whiterun Hold](Skyrim_Whiterun_Hold.md) and [Falkreath Hold](Skyrim_Falkreath_Hold.md) containing a [necromancer](Skyrim_Necromancer.md) and [skeletons](Skyrim_Skeleton.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Brittleshin+Pass)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Broken Fang Cave](Skyrim_Broken_Fang_Cave.md)** — A small [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) southeast of [Rorikstead](Skyrim_Rorikstead.md) containing [skeletons](Skyrim_Skeleton.md) and [vampires](Skyrim_Vampire.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Broken+Fang+Cave)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Broken Helm Hollow](Skyrim_Broken_Helm_Hollow.md)** — A small [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) in the southeast corner of [The Rift](Skyrim_The_Rift.md) containing [bandits](Skyrim_Bandit.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Broken+Helm+Hollow)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Broken Oar Grotto](Skyrim_Broken_Oar_Grotto.md)** — A small [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) north of [Solitude](Skyrim_Solitude.md) containing [Blackblood Marauders](Skyrim_Blackblood_Marauder.md) and their leader [Captain Hargar](Skyrim_Captain_Hargar.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Broken+Oar+Grotto)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Bronze Water Cave](Skyrim_Bronze_Water_Cave.md)** — A small [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) west of [Windhelm](Skyrim_Windhelm.md) containing leveled [animals](Skyrim_Animals.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Bronze+Water+Cave)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Brood Cavern](Skyrim_Brood_Cavern.md)** — A small [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) southwest of [Morthal](Skyrim_Morthal.md) containing leveled [animals](Skyrim_Animals.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Brood+Cavern)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Bruca's Leap Redoubt](Skyrim_Bruca%27s_Leap_Redoubt.md)** — A small [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) southwest of [Dragon Bridge](Skyrim_Dragon_Bridge.md) containing [Forsworn](Skyrim_Forsworn.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Bruca%27s+Leap+Redoubt)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Chillwind Depths](Skyrim_Chillwind_Depths.md)** — A small [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) south of [Dragon Bridge](Skyrim_Dragon_Bridge.md) containing [Falmer](Skyrim_Falmer.md), [chaurus](Skyrim_Chaurus.md), and [frostbite spiders](Skyrim_Frostbite_Spider.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Chillwind+Depths)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Cragslane Cavern](Skyrim_Cragslane_Cavern.md)** — A small [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) north of [Shor's Stone](Skyrim_Shor%27s_Stone.md) containing [bandits](Skyrim_Bandit.md) and [pit wolves](Skyrim_Pit_Wolf.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Cragslane+Cavern)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Cragwallow Slope](Skyrim_Cragwallow_Slope.md)** — A medium-sized [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) southeast of [Windhelm](Skyrim_Windhelm.md) home to [conjurers](Skyrim_Conjurer.md) and [atronachs](Skyrim_Atronach.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Cragwallow+Slope)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Cronvangr Cave](Skyrim_Cronvangr_Cave.md)** — A medium-sized [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) southwest of [Kynesgrove](Skyrim_Kynesgrove.md) containing [vampires](Skyrim_Vampire.md) and [frostbite spiders](Skyrim_Frostbite_Spider.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Cronvangr+Cave)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Crystaldrift Cave](Skyrim_Crystaldrift_Cave.md)** — A small [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) southwest of [Riften](Skyrim_Riften.md) containing leveled [animals](Skyrim_Animals.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Crystaldrift+Cave)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Darkshade](Skyrim_Darkshade.md)** — A small [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) east of [Whiterun](Skyrim_Whiterun.md) containing [trolls](Skyrim_Troll.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Darkshade)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Darkwater Pass](Skyrim_Darkwater_Pass.md)** — A small [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) south-southwest of [Darkwater Crossing](Skyrim_Darkwater_Crossing.md) containing [Falmer](Skyrim_Falmer.md) and [chaurus](Skyrim_Chaurus.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Darkwater+Pass)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Dimhollow Crypt](Skyrim_Dimhollow_Crypt.md)**<sup>[DG](Skyrim_Dawnguard.md)</sup> — A medium-sized [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) east of [Stonehills](Skyrim_Stonehills.md) and southwest of [Frostmere Crypt](Skyrim_Frostmere_Crypt.md) where [Serana](Skyrim_Serana.md) is trapped. [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Dimhollow+Crypt+%28DG%29)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Duskglow Crevice](Skyrim_Duskglow_Crevice.md)** — A small [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) south of [Dawnstar](Skyrim_Dawnstar.md) containing [Falmer](Skyrim_Falmer.md), [chaurus](Skyrim_Chaurus.md), [bandits](Skyrim_Bandit.md), and [skeevers](Skyrim_Skeever.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Duskglow+Crevice)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Fallowstone Cave](Skyrim_Fallowstone_Cave.md)** — A small [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) northeast of [Riften](Skyrim_Riften.md) containing leveled [animals](Skyrim_Animals.md), [frostbite spiders](Skyrim_Frostbite_Spider.md), and [giants](Skyrim_Giant.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Fallowstone+Cave)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Forsaken Cave](Skyrim_Forsaken_Cave.md)** — A medium-sized [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) west of [Windhelm](Skyrim_Windhelm.md) containing [draugr](Skyrim_Draugr.md) and leveled [animals](Skyrim_Animals.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Forsaken+Cave)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Gloomreach](Skyrim_Gloomreach.md)** — A medium-sized [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) in the Reach containing [chaurus](Skyrim_Chaurus.md) and [Falmer](Skyrim_Falmer.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Gloomreach)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Graywinter Watch](Skyrim_Graywinter_Watch.md)** — A small [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) east of [Whiterun](Skyrim_Whiterun.md) containing [trolls](Skyrim_Troll.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Graywinter+Watch)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Greywater Grotto](Skyrim_Greywater_Grotto.md)** — A small [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) east of [Falkreath](Skyrim_Falkreath.md) containing leveled [animals](Skyrim_Animals.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Greywater+Grotto)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Haemar's Shame](Skyrim_Haemar%27s_Shame.md)** — A medium-sized [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) east of [Helgen](Skyrim_Helgen.md) containing [vampires](Skyrim_Vampire.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Haemar%27s+Shame)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Halldir's Cairn](Skyrim_Halldir%27s_Cairn.md)** — A small [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) southwest of [Falkreath](Skyrim_Falkreath.md) containing [draugr](Skyrim_Draugr.md), [ghosts](Skyrim_Ghost.md), and the powerful undead mage [Halldir](Skyrim_Halldir.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Halldir%27s+Cairn)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Hob's Fall Cave](Skyrim_Hob%27s_Fall_Cave.md)** — A small [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) west of [Winterhold](Skyrim_Winterhold.md) containing [necromancers](Skyrim_Necromancer.md) and [skeletons](Skyrim_Skeleton.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Hob%27s+Fall+Cave)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Honeystrand Cave](Skyrim_Honeystrand_Cave.md)** — A small [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) south of [Ivarstead](Skyrim_Ivarstead.md) containing [bears](Skyrim_Bear.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Honeystrand+Cave)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Liar's Retreat](Skyrim_Liar%27s_Retreat.md)** — A small [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) and connected underground cellar northeast of [Karthwasten](Skyrim_Karthwasten.md) containing [bandits](Skyrim_Bandit.md) and invading [Falmer](Skyrim_Falmer.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Liar%27s+Retreat)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Lost Echo Cave](Skyrim_Lost_Echo_Cave.md)** — A small [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) west of [Solitude](Skyrim_Solitude.md) containing [Falmer](Skyrim_Falmer.md) and [chaurus](Skyrim_Chaurus.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Lost+Echo+Cave)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Lost Knife Hideout](Skyrim_Lost_Knife_Hideout.md)** — A medium-sized [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) northeast of [Ivarstead](Skyrim_Ivarstead.md) containing [bandits](Skyrim_Bandit.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Lost+Knife+Hideout)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Moss Mother Cavern](Skyrim_Moss_Mother_Cavern.md)** — A small, open-roofed [cavernous](Skyrim_Caves.md) grove lush with many kinds of flora and fungi, located due north of [Hunter's Rest](Skyrim_Hunter%27s_Rest.md) and northwest of [Half-Moon Mill](Skyrim_Half-Moon_Mill.md) which is inhabited by bears and spriggans. [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Moss+Mother+Cavern)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Orotheim](Skyrim_Orotheim.md)** — A small [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) that is home to bandits intent on poaching [mammoths](Skyrim_Mammoth.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Orotheim)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Pinemoon Cave](Skyrim_Pinemoon_Cave.md)** — A small [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) northwest of [Dragon Bridge](Skyrim_Dragon_Bridge.md) containing [vampires](Skyrim_Vampire.md) and [wolves](Skyrim_Wolf.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Pinemoon+Cave)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Pinepeak Cavern](Skyrim_Pinepeak_Cavern.md)** — A small [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) north of [Ivarstead](Skyrim_Ivarstead.md) containing [bears](Skyrim_Bear.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Pinepeak+Cavern)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Rebel's Cairn](Skyrim_Rebel%27s_Cairn.md)** — A small [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) northwest of [Rorikstead](Skyrim_Rorikstead.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Rebel%27s+Cairn)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Red Eagle Redoubt](Skyrim_Red_Eagle_Redoubt.md)** — A small [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) and two exterior camps east of [Markarth](Skyrim_Markarth.md) containing [Forsworn](Skyrim_Forsworn.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Red+Eagle+Redoubt)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Redoran's Retreat](Skyrim_Redoran%27s_Retreat.md)** — A small [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) west-northwest of [Whiterun](Skyrim_Whiterun.md) containing [bandits](Skyrim_Bandit.md) and a [dog](Skyrim_Dog.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Redoran%27s+Retreat)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Rimerock Burrow](Skyrim_Rimerock_Burrow.md)** — A small [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) northwest of [Dragon Bridge](Skyrim_Dragon_Bridge.md) containing an [atronach](Skyrim_Atronach.md) and the powerful conjurer [Sebastian Lort](Skyrim_Sebastian_Lort.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Rimerock+Burrow)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Shadowgreen Cavern](Skyrim_Shadowgreen_Cavern.md)** — A small [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) northwest of [Solitude](Skyrim_Solitude.md) containing leveled [spriggans](Skyrim_Spriggan.md) and [animals](Skyrim_Animals.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Shadowgreen+Cavern)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Shimmermist Cave](Skyrim_Shimmermist_Cave.md)** — A medium-sized [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) northeast of [Whiterun](Skyrim_Whiterun.md) containing [Falmer](Skyrim_Falmer.md) and [chaurus](Skyrim_Chaurus.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Shimmermist+Cave)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Sightless Pit](Skyrim_Sightless_Pit.md)** — A medium-sized [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) south-southwest of [Winterhold](Skyrim_Winterhold.md) containing [Falmer](Skyrim_Falmer.md) and [chaurus](Skyrim_Chaurus.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Sightless+Pit)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Snapleg Cave](Skyrim_Snapleg_Cave.md)** — A medium-sized [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) northwest of [Rift Watchtower](Skyrim_Rift_Watchtower.md) occupied by [hags](Skyrim_Hag.md) and [monsters](Skyrim_Monsters.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Snapleg+Cave)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Southfringe Sanctum](Skyrim_Southfringe_Sanctum.md)** — A small [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) southeast of [Helgen](Skyrim_Helgen.md) containing the conjurer [Bashnag](Skyrim_Bashnag.md) and his [coven](Skyrim_Spellsword_(NPC).md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Southfringe+Sanctum)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Steepfall Burrow](Skyrim_Steepfall_Burrow.md)** — A small [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) northwest of [Dragon Bridge](Skyrim_Dragon_Bridge.md) containing [frost trolls](Skyrim_Frost_Troll.md) and [ice wolves](Skyrim_Ice_Wolf.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Steepfall+Burrow)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Stillborn Cave](Skyrim_Stillborn_Cave.md)** — A small [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) south-southeast of [Winterhold](Skyrim_Winterhold.md) containing [Falmer](Skyrim_Falmer.md) and [chaurus](Skyrim_Chaurus.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Stillborn+Cave)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Stony Creek Cave](Skyrim_Stony_Creek_Cave.md)** — A small [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) southeast of [Windhelm](Skyrim_Windhelm.md) containing [bandits](Skyrim_Bandit.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Stony+Creek+Cave)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Sunderstone Gorge](Skyrim_Sunderstone_Gorge.md)** — A small [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) north-northwest of [Falkreath](Skyrim_Falkreath.md) containing [warlocks](Skyrim_Warlock.md) and [skeletons](Skyrim_Skeleton.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Sunderstone+Gorge)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Swindler's Den](Skyrim_Swindler%27s_Den.md)** — A small [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) east of [Rorikstead](Skyrim_Rorikstead.md) containing [bandits](Skyrim_Bandit.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Swindler%27s+Den)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Tolvald's Cave](Skyrim_Tolvald%27s_Cave.md)** — A large [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) northeast of [Shor's Stone](Skyrim_Shor%27s_Stone.md) containing [Falmer](Skyrim_Falmer.md), [chaurus](Skyrim_Chaurus.md), [frostbite spiders](Skyrim_Frostbite_Spider.md), and [skeevers](Skyrim_Skeever.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Tolvald%27s+Cave)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Uttering Hills Cave](Skyrim_Uttering_Hills_Cave.md)** — A small [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) southwest of [Windhelm](Skyrim_Windhelm.md) containing [bandits](Skyrim_Bandit.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Uttering+Hills+Cave)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[White River Watch](Skyrim_White_River_Watch.md)** — A small [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) east-southeast of [Whiterun](Skyrim_Whiterun.md) containing the [White River](Skyrim_White_River.md) [bandits](Skyrim_Bandit.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=White+River+Watch)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Wolfskull Cave](Skyrim_Wolfskull_Cave.md)** — A medium-sized [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) west of [Solitude](Skyrim_Solitude.md) containing [bandits](Skyrim_Bandit.md) or [necromancers](Skyrim_Necromancer.md) and [draugr](Skyrim_Draugr.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Wolfskull+Cave)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Yngvild](Skyrim_Yngvild.md)** — A medium-sized [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) east-northeast of [Dawnstar](Skyrim_Dawnstar.md) containing [draugr](Skyrim_Draugr.md) and [Yngvild ghosts](Skyrim_Yngvild_Ghost.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Yngvild)

### Camps
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Camp.png) **[Dragon Bridge Overlook](Skyrim_Dragon_Bridge_Overlook.md)** — A small [Forsworn](Skyrim_Forsworn.md) [camp](Skyrim_Camps.md) south of [Dragon Bridge](Skyrim_Dragon_Bridge.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Dragon+Bridge+Overlook)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Camp.png) **[Druadach Redoubt](Skyrim_Druadach_Redoubt.md)** — A small [Forsworn](Skyrim_Forsworn.md) [camp](Skyrim_Camps.md) and cave south of [Mor Khazgur](Skyrim_Mor_Khazgur.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Druadach+Redoubt)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Camp.png) **[Halted Stream Camp](Skyrim_Halted_Stream_Camp.md)** — A small [bandit](Skyrim_Bandit.md) [camp](Skyrim_Camps.md) and [iron](Skyrim_Iron.md) [mine](Skyrim_Mines.md) north of [Whiterun](Skyrim_Whiterun.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Halted+Stream+Camp)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Camp.png) **[Knifepoint Ridge](Skyrim_Knifepoint_Ridge.md)** — A small [bandit](Skyrim_Bandit.md) [camp](Skyrim_Camps.md) and [iron](Skyrim_Iron.md) and [corundum](Skyrim_Corundum.md) [mine](Skyrim_Mines.md) northwest of [Falkreath](Skyrim_Falkreath.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Knifepoint+Ridge)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Camp.png) **[Robber's Gorge](Skyrim_Robber%27s_Gorge.md)** — A small [bandit](Skyrim_Bandit.md) [camp](Skyrim_Camps.md) and cave west-southwest of [Morthal](Skyrim_Morthal.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Robber%27s+Gorge)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Camp.png) **[Serpent's Bluff Redoubt](Skyrim_Serpent%27s_Bluff_Redoubt.md)** — A small [Forsworn](Skyrim_Forsworn.md) [camp](Skyrim_Camps.md) and ruin southwest of [Rorikstead](Skyrim_Rorikstead.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Serpent%27s+Bluff+Redoubt)

### Clearings
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Clearing.png) **[Autumnshade Clearing](Skyrim_Autumnshade_Clearing.md)** — A circular glade inhabited by a [spriggan](Skyrim_Spriggan.md) and its attending [animals](Skyrim_Animals.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Autumnshade+Clearing)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Clearing.png) **[Clearpine Pond](Skyrim_Clearpine_Pond.md)** — A pond with a small island, located west-southwest of [Solitude](Skyrim_Solitude.md), just to the northeast of [Pinemoon Cave](Skyrim_Pinemoon_Cave.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Clearpine+Pond)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Clearing.png) **[Clearspring Tarn](Skyrim_Clearspring_Tarn.md)** — A small mountain pool on the cliff overlooking [Eastmarch](Skyrim_Eastmarch.md), due east of [Snapleg Cave](Skyrim_Snapleg_Cave.md) and west of [Shor's Stone](Skyrim_Shor%27s_Stone.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Clearspring+Tarn)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Clearing.png) **[Mara's Eye Pond](Skyrim_Mara%27s_Eye_Pond.md)** — A small lake due east of [Gallows Rock](Skyrim_Gallows_Rock.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Mara%27s+Eye+Pond)

### Dragon Lairs
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Dragon_Lair.png) **[Ancient's Ascent](Skyrim_Ancient%27s_Ascent.md)** — A mountaintop [dragon lair](Skyrim_Dragon_Lairs.md) southwest of [Helgen](Skyrim_Helgen.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Ancient%27s+Ascent)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Dragon_Lair.png) **[Autumnwatch Tower](Skyrim_Autumnwatch_Tower.md)** — A [dragon lair](Skyrim_Dragon_Lairs.md) south of [Ivarstead](Skyrim_Ivarstead.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Autumnwatch+Tower)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Dragon_Lair.png) **[Bonestrewn Crest](Skyrim_Bonestrewn_Crest.md)** — A mountaintop [dragon lair](Skyrim_Dragon_Lairs.md) south of [Windhelm](Skyrim_Windhelm.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Bonestrewn+Crest)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Dragon_Lair.png) **[Dragontooth Crater](Skyrim_Dragontooth_Crater.md)** — A [dragon lair](Skyrim_Dragon_Lairs.md) north-northwest of [Karthwasten](Skyrim_Karthwasten.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Dragontooth+Crater)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Dragon_Lair.png) **[Eldersblood Peak](Skyrim_Eldersblood_Peak.md)** — A mountaintop [dragon lair](Skyrim_Dragon_Lairs.md) south of [Morthal](Skyrim_Morthal.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Eldersblood+Peak)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Dragon_Lair.png) **[Lost Tongue Overlook](Skyrim_Lost_Tongue_Overlook.md)** — A [dragon lair](Skyrim_Dragon_Lairs.md) south of [Riften](Skyrim_Riften.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Lost+Tongue+Overlook)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Dragon_Lair.png) **[Mount Anthor](Skyrim_Mount_Anthor.md)** — A mountaintop [dragon lair](Skyrim_Dragon_Lairs.md) south-southwest of [Winterhold](Skyrim_Winterhold.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Mount+Anthor)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Dragon_Lair.png) **[Northwind Summit](Skyrim_Northwind_Summit.md)** — A mountaintop [dragon lair](Skyrim_Dragon_Lairs.md) northwest of [Shor's Stone](Skyrim_Shor%27s_Stone.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Northwind+Summit)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Dragon_Lair.png) **[Shearpoint](Skyrim_Shearpoint.md)** — A mountaintop [dragon lair](Skyrim_Dragon_Lairs.md) northeast of [Whiterun](Skyrim_Whiterun.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Shearpoint)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Dragon_Lair.png) **[Skyborn Altar](Skyrim_Skyborn_Altar.md)** — A mountaintop [dragon lair](Skyrim_Dragon_Lairs.md) east-southeast of [Morthal](Skyrim_Morthal.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Skyborn+Altar)

### Dwemer Ruins
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Dwemer.png) **[Alftand](Skyrim_Alftand.md)** — A large [Dwarven ruin](Skyrim_Dwarven_Ruins.md) southwest of [Winterhold](Skyrim_Winterhold.md) containing [Dwarven automatons](Skyrim_Dwarven_Automatons.md), [Falmer](Skyrim_Falmer.md), [frostbite spiders](Skyrim_Frostbite_Spider.md), and [skeevers](Skyrim_Skeever.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Alftand)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Dwemer.png) **[Kagrenzel](Skyrim_Kagrenzel.md)** — A small [Dwarven ruin](Skyrim_Dwarven_Ruins.md) southeast of [Windhelm](Skyrim_Windhelm.md) containing [Falmer](Skyrim_Falmer.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Kagrenzel)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Dwemer.png) **[Mzinchaleft](Skyrim_Mzinchaleft.md)** — A medium-sized [Dwarven ruin](Skyrim_Dwarven_Ruins.md) southwest of [Dawnstar](Skyrim_Dawnstar.md) containing [bandits](Skyrim_Bandit.md), [Dwarven automatons](Skyrim_Dwarven_Automatons.md), [Falmer](Skyrim_Falmer.md), and [chaurus](Skyrim_Chaurus.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Mzinchaleft)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Dwemer.png) **[Mzulft](Skyrim_Mzulft.md)** — A large [Dwarven ruin](Skyrim_Dwarven_Ruins.md) south-southeast of [Windhelm](Skyrim_Windhelm.md) containing [Dwarven automatons](Skyrim_Dwarven_Automatons.md), [Falmer](Skyrim_Falmer.md), and [chaurus](Skyrim_Chaurus.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Mzulft)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Dwemer.png) **[Raldbthar](Skyrim_Raldbthar.md)** — A medium-sized [Dwarven ruin](Skyrim_Dwarven_Ruins.md) west-southwest of [Windhelm](Skyrim_Windhelm.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Raldbthar)

### Forts
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Fort.png) **[Bloodlet Throne](Skyrim_Bloodlet_Throne.md)** — A small [fort](Skyrim_Military_Forts.md) southwest of [Helgen](Skyrim_Helgen.md) containing [vampires](Skyrim_Vampire.md), [wolves](Skyrim_Wolf.md), [gargoyles](Skyrim_Gargoyle.md), and [death hounds](Skyrim_Death_Hound.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Bloodlet+Throne)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Fort.png) **[Broken Tower Redoubt](Skyrim_Broken_Tower_Redoubt.md)** — A medium-sized [fort](Skyrim_Military_Forts.md) east of [Karthwasten](Skyrim_Karthwasten.md) containing [Forsworn](Skyrim_Forsworn.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Broken+Tower+Redoubt)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Fort.png) **[Cracked Tusk Keep](Skyrim_Cracked_Tusk_Keep.md)** — A medium-sized [fort](Skyrim_Military_Forts.md) west of [Falkreath](Skyrim_Falkreath.md) containing [Orc](Skyrim_Orc.md) [bandits](Skyrim_Bandit.md) and [hunters](Skyrim_Orc_Hunter.md) led by [Ghunzul](Skyrim_Ghunzul.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Cracked+Tusk+Keep)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Fort.png) **[Darklight Tower](Skyrim_Darklight_Tower.md)** — A medium-sized [fort](Skyrim_Military_Forts.md) southwest of [Riften](Skyrim_Riften.md) containing [hagravens](Skyrim_Hagraven.md), [hags](Skyrim_Hag.md), and [witches](Skyrim_Witch.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Darklight+Tower)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Fort.png) **[Driftshade Refuge](Skyrim_Driftshade_Refuge.md)** — A medium-sized [fort](Skyrim_Military_Forts.md) southeast of [Dawnstar](Skyrim_Dawnstar.md) containing [Silver Hands](Skyrim_Silver_Hand.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Driftshade+Refuge)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Fort.png) **[Faldar's Tooth](Skyrim_Faldar%27s_Tooth.md)** — A medium-sized [fort](Skyrim_Military_Forts.md) west of [Riften](Skyrim_Riften.md) containing [bandits](Skyrim_Bandit.md), [wolves](Skyrim_Wolf.md), and [skeevers](Skyrim_Skeever.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Faldar%27s+Tooth)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Fort.png) **[Fellglow Keep](Skyrim_Fellglow_Keep.md)** — A medium-sized [fort](Skyrim_Military_Forts.md) east-northeast of [Whiterun](Skyrim_Whiterun.md) containing [warlocks](Skyrim_Warlock.md), [atronachs](Skyrim_Atronach.md), and [vampires](Skyrim_Vampire.md), and the mages' leader, [the Caller](Skyrim_The_Caller.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Fellglow+Keep)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Fort.png) **[Fort Fellhammer](Skyrim_Fort_Fellhammer.md)** — A medium-sized [fort](Skyrim_Military_Forts.md) and [iron](Skyrim_Iron.md) [mine](Skyrim_Mines.md) south of [Dawnstar](Skyrim_Dawnstar.md) containing [bandits](Skyrim_Bandit.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Fort+Fellhammer)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Fort.png) **[Gallows Rock](Skyrim_Gallows_Rock.md)** — A small [fort](Skyrim_Military_Forts.md) southwest of [Windhelm](Skyrim_Windhelm.md) containing [Silver Hands](Skyrim_Silver_Hand.md) and their leader [Krev the Skinner](Skyrim_Krev_the_Skinner.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Gallows+Rock)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Fort.png) **[Harmugstahl](Skyrim_Harmugstahl.md)** — A small [fort](Skyrim_Military_Forts.md) north of [Karthwasten](Skyrim_Karthwasten.md) containing the warlock [Kornalus](Skyrim_Kornalus.md) and his enchanted [frostbite spiders](Skyrim_Frostbite_Spider.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Harmugstahl)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Fort.png) **[Ilinalta's Deep](Skyrim_Ilinalta%27s_Deep.md)** — A medium-sized [fort](Skyrim_Military_Forts.md) north of the [Lady Stone](Skyrim_The_Lady_Stone.md) containing [necromancers](Skyrim_Necromancer.md) and [skeletons](Skyrim_Skeleton.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Ilinalta%27s+Deep)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Fort.png) **[Morvunskar](Skyrim_Morvunskar.md)** — A small [fort](Skyrim_Military_Forts.md) southwest of [Windhelm](Skyrim_Windhelm.md) containing [warlocks](Skyrim_Warlock.md) and their leader [Naris the Wicked](Skyrim_Naris_the_Wicked.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Morvunskar)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Fort.png) **[Treva's Watch](Skyrim_Treva%27s_Watch.md)** — A medium-sized [fort](Skyrim_Military_Forts.md) southeast of [Ivarstead](Skyrim_Ivarstead.md) containing [bandits](Skyrim_Bandit.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Treva%27s+Watch)

### Giant Camps
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Giant_Camp.png) **[Bleakwind Basin](Skyrim_Bleakwind_Basin.md)** — A [giant camp](Skyrim_Giant_Camps.md) west of [Whiterun](Skyrim_Whiterun.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Bleakwind+Basin)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Giant_Camp.png) **[Blizzard Rest](Skyrim_Blizzard_Rest.md)** — A [giant camp](Skyrim_Giant_Camps.md) south of [Dawnstar](Skyrim_Dawnstar.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Blizzard+Rest)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Giant_Camp.png) **[Broken Limb Camp](Skyrim_Broken_Limb_Camp.md)** — A [giant camp](Skyrim_Giant_Camps.md) north-northwest of [Darkwater Crossing](Skyrim_Darkwater_Crossing.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Broken+Limb+Camp)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Giant_Camp.png) **[Cradlecrush Rock](Skyrim_Cradlecrush_Rock.md)** — A [giant camp](Skyrim_Giant_Camps.md) southwest of [Windhelm](Skyrim_Windhelm.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Cradlecrush+Rock)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Giant_Camp.png) **[Guldun Rock](Skyrim_Guldun_Rock.md)** — A [giant camp](Skyrim_Giant_Camps.md) east of [Whiterun](Skyrim_Whiterun.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Guldun+Rock)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Giant_Camp.png) **[Red Road Pass](Skyrim_Red_Road_Pass.md)** — A [giant camp](Skyrim_Giant_Camps.md) south-southwest of [Dawnstar](Skyrim_Dawnstar.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Red+Road+Pass)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Giant_Camp.png) **[Secunda's Kiss](Skyrim_Secunda%27s_Kiss.md)** — A [giant camp](Skyrim_Giant_Camps.md) southwest of [Whiterun](Skyrim_Whiterun.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Secunda%27s+Kiss)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Giant_Camp.png) **[Sleeping Tree Camp](Skyrim_Sleeping_Tree_Camp.md)** — A [giant camp](Skyrim_Giant_Camps.md) west of [Whiterun](Skyrim_Whiterun.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Sleeping+Tree+Camp)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Giant_Camp.png) **[Steamcrag Camp](Skyrim_Steamcrag_Camp.md)** — A [giant camp](Skyrim_Giant_Camps.md) south of [Windhelm](Skyrim_Windhelm.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Steamcrag+Camp)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Giant_Camp.png) **[Stonehill Bluff](Skyrim_Stonehill_Bluff.md)** — A [giant camp](Skyrim_Giant_Camps.md) south-southwest of [Dawnstar](Skyrim_Dawnstar.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Stonehill+Bluff)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Giant_Camp.png) **[Talking Stone Camp](Skyrim_Talking_Stone_Camp.md)** — A [giant camp](Skyrim_Giant_Camps.md) northeast of [Rorikstead](Skyrim_Rorikstead.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Talking+Stone+Camp)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Giant_Camp.png) **[Tumble Arch Pass](Skyrim_Tumble_Arch_Pass.md)** — A [giant camp](Skyrim_Giant_Camps.md) northeast of [Whiterun](Skyrim_Whiterun.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Tumble+Arch+Pass)

### Groves
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Grove.png) **[Evergreen Grove](Skyrim_Evergreen_Grove.md)** — A grove of trees concealing a small pond fed by a rocky stream, just southwest of [Half-Moon Mill](Skyrim_Half-Moon_Mill.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Evergreen+Grove)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Grove.png) **[Greenspring Hollow](Skyrim_Greenspring_Hollow.md)** — A shallow outdoor cave west-northwest of [Whiterun](Skyrim_Whiterun.md) containing a leveled [animal](Skyrim_Animals.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Greenspring+Hollow)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Grove.png) **[Shrouded Grove](Skyrim_Shrouded_Grove.md)** — A grove with a small cave located in [the Pale](Skyrim_The_Pale.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Shrouded+Grove)

### Imperial Towers
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Imperial_Tower.png) **[Abandoned Prison](Skyrim_Abandoned_Prison.md)** — A small [Imperial prison](Skyrim_Imperial_Towers.md) southwest of [Windhelm](Skyrim_Windhelm.md) containing the [ghosts](Skyrim_Ghost.md) of its drowned prisoners. [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Abandoned+Prison)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Imperial_Tower.png) **[Falkreath Watchtower](Skyrim_Falkreath_Watchtower.md)** — A small ruined [tower](Skyrim_Imperial_Towers.md) north of [Falkreath](Skyrim_Falkreath.md) containing a [necromancer](Skyrim_Necromancer.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Falkreath+Watchtower)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Imperial_Tower.png) **[Pinefrost Tower](Skyrim_Pinefrost_Tower.md)** — A small ruined [tower](Skyrim_Imperial_Towers.md) northwest of [Dragon Bridge](Skyrim_Dragon_Bridge.md) containing leveled [animals](Skyrim_Animals.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Pinefrost+Tower)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Imperial_Tower.png) **[Rift Watchtower](Skyrim_Rift_Watchtower.md)** — A small [tower](Skyrim_Imperial_Towers.md) east of [Ivarstead](Skyrim_Ivarstead.md) containing [Orc](Skyrim_Orc.md) [bandits](Skyrim_Bandit.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Rift+Watchtower)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Imperial_Tower.png) **[Snowpoint Beacon](Skyrim_Snowpoint_Beacon.md)** — A small [tower](Skyrim_Imperial_Towers.md) southwest of [Winterhold](Skyrim_Winterhold.md) containing [bandits](Skyrim_Bandit.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Snowpoint+Beacon)

### Landmarks
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Landmark.png) **[Ruins of Bthalft](Skyrim_Ruins_of_Bthalft.md)** — A small [Dwarven ruin](Skyrim_Dwarven_Ruins.md) south of [Ivarstead](Skyrim_Ivarstead.md) containing [bandits](Skyrim_Bandit.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Ruins+of+Bthalft)

### Mines
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Mine.png) **[Bilegulch Mine](Skyrim_Bilegulch_Mine.md)** — A small [orichalcum](Skyrim_Orichalcum.md) [mine](Skyrim_Mines.md) northwest of [Falkreath](Skyrim_Falkreath.md) containing [Orc](Skyrim_Orc.md) [bandits](Skyrim_Bandit.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Bilegulch+Mine)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Mine.png) **[Embershard Mine](Skyrim_Embershard_Mine.md)** — A small [iron](Skyrim_Iron.md) [mine](Skyrim_Mines.md) southwest of [Riverwood](Skyrim_Riverwood.md) containing [bandits](Skyrim_Bandit.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Embershard+Mine)

### Nordic Dwellings
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Dwelling.png) **[Four Skull Lookout](Skyrim_Four_Skull_Lookout.md)** — A small [outdoor Nordic ruin](Skyrim_Nordic_Dwellings.md) south of [Karthwasten](Skyrim_Karthwasten.md) containing [bandits](Skyrim_Bandit.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Four+Skull+Lookout)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Dwelling.png) **[Lost Valkygg](Skyrim_Lost_Valkygg.md)** — A small [Nordic ruin](Skyrim_Nordic_Dwellings.md) northeast of [Labyrinthian](Skyrim_Labyrinthian.md) containing [draugr](Skyrim_Draugr.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Lost+Valkygg)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Dwelling.png) **[Moldering Ruins](Skyrim_Moldering_Ruins.md)**<sup>[DG](Skyrim_Dawnguard.md)</sup> — A small [camp and concealed cave](Skyrim_Nordic_Dwellings.md) west of [Rorikstead](Skyrim_Rorikstead.md) containing [vampires](Skyrim_Vampire.md) and dead [draugr](Skyrim_Draugr.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Moldering+Ruins+%28DG%29)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Dwelling.png) **[North Skybound Watch](Skyrim_North_Skybound_Watch.md)** — A small [Nordic tower](Skyrim_Nordic_Towers.md) and [ruin](Skyrim_Nordic_Dwellings.md) northeast of [Helgen](Skyrim_Helgen.md) containing [bandits](Skyrim_Bandit.md) and a [giant frostbite spider](Skyrim_Giant_Frostbite_Spider.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Skybound+Watch+Pass)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Dwelling.png) **[Roadside Ruins](Skyrim_Roadside_Ruins.md)** — A small [outdoor Nordic ruin](Skyrim_Nordic_Dwellings.md) northwest of [Falkreath](Skyrim_Falkreath.md) containing a [spriggan](Skyrim_Spriggan.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Roadside+Ruins)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Dwelling.png) **[Yorgrim Overlook](Skyrim_Yorgrim_Overlook.md)** — A small [outdoor Nordic ruin](Skyrim_Nordic_Dwellings.md) on the southern slope of the mountain range directly south of [Winterhold](Skyrim_Winterhold.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Yorgrim+Overlook)

### Nordic Towers
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Tower.png) **[Bannermist Tower](Skyrim_Bannermist_Tower.md)** — A small ruined [Nordic tower](Skyrim_Nordic_Towers.md) northwest of [Falkreath](Skyrim_Falkreath.md) containing [bandits](Skyrim_Bandit.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Bannermist+Tower)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Tower.png) **[Bleakwind Bluff](Skyrim_Bleakwind_Bluff.md)** — A small ruined [Nordic tower](Skyrim_Nordic_Towers.md) inhabited by [hagravens](Skyrim_Hagraven.md) and [Forsworn](Skyrim_Forsworn.md), located northwest of [Rorikstead](Skyrim_Rorikstead.md) on an outcrop of rock. [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Bleakwind+Bluff)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Tower.png) **[Cradle Stone Tower](Skyrim_Cradle_Stone_Tower.md)** — A small ruined [Nordic tower](Skyrim_Nordic_Towers.md) west of [Bard's Leap Summit](Skyrim_Bard%27s_Leap_Summit.md) containing a [hagraven](Skyrim_Hagraven.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Cradle+Stone+Tower)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Tower.png) **[Dead Crone Rock](Skyrim_Dead_Crone_Rock.md)** — A small ruined [Nordic tower](Skyrim_Nordic_Towers.md) inhabited by [Forsworn](Skyrim_Forsworn.md), located south-southwest of [Markarth](Skyrim_Markarth.md), just above [Hag Rock Redoubt](Skyrim_Hag_Rock_Redoubt.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Dead+Crone+Rock)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Tower.png) **[Nilheim](Skyrim_Nilheim.md)** — A small ruined [Nordic tower](Skyrim_Nordic_Towers.md) east-northeast of [Ivarstead](Skyrim_Ivarstead.md) containing [bandits](Skyrim_Bandit.md) disguised as guards. [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Nilheim)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Tower.png) **[Peak's Shade Tower](Skyrim_Peak%27s_Shade_Tower.md)** — A small ruined [Nordic tower](Skyrim_Nordic_Towers.md) east of [Falkreath](Skyrim_Falkreath.md) containing a [spriggan](Skyrim_Spriggan.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Peak%27s+Shade+Tower)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Tower.png) **[South Skybound Watch](Skyrim_South_Skybound_Watch.md)** — A small [Nordic tower](Skyrim_Nordic_Towers.md) and [ruin](Skyrim_Nordic_Dwellings.md) northeast of [Helgen](Skyrim_Helgen.md) containing [bandits](Skyrim_Bandit.md) and a [giant frostbite spider](Skyrim_Giant_Frostbite_Spider.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Skybound+Watch+Pass)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Tower.png) **[Sundered Towers](Skyrim_Sundered_Towers.md)** — A small pair of linked ruined [Nordic towers](Skyrim_Nordic_Towers.md) southeast of [Karthwasten](Skyrim_Karthwasten.md) containing [Forsworn](Skyrim_Forsworn.md) and [hagravens](Skyrim_Hagraven.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Sundered+Towers)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Tower.png) **[Valtheim Towers](Skyrim_Valtheim_Towers.md)** — A small pair of linked ruined [Nordic towers](Skyrim_Nordic_Towers.md) east of [Whiterun](Skyrim_Whiterun.md) containing [bandits](Skyrim_Bandit.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Valtheim+Towers)

### Nordic Ruins
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Ruin.png) **[Arcwind Point](Skyrim_Arcwind_Point.md)** — A small outdoor [Nordic ruin](Skyrim_Nordic_Ruins.md) south of [Ivarstead](Skyrim_Ivarstead.md) containing [draugr](Skyrim_Draugr.md), [skeletons](Skyrim_Skeleton.md) and, after [Dragon Rising](Skyrim_Dragon_Rising.md), a [dragon](Skyrim_Dragon.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Arcwind+Point)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Ruin.png) **[Angarvunde](Skyrim_Angarvunde.md)** — A medium-sized [Nordic ruin](Skyrim_Nordic_Ruins.md) west of [Riften](Skyrim_Riften.md) containing [draugr](Skyrim_Draugr.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Angarvunde)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Ruin.png) **[Ansilvund](Skyrim_Ansilvund.md)** — A medium-sized [Nordic ruin](Skyrim_Nordic_Ruins.md) north of [Riften](Skyrim_Riften.md) containing [draugr](Skyrim_Draugr.md) and [necromancers](Skyrim_Necromancer.md) led by [Lu'ah Al-Skaven](Skyrim_Lu%27ah_Al-Skaven.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Ansilvund)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Ruin.png) **[Bleak Falls Barrow](Skyrim_Bleak_Falls_Barrow_(place).md)** — A medium-sized [Nordic ruin](Skyrim_Nordic_Ruins.md) west of [Riverwood](Skyrim_Riverwood.md) containing [bandits](Skyrim_Bandit.md), [draugr](Skyrim_Draugr.md), and [skeevers](Skyrim_Skeever.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Bleak+Falls+Barrow)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Ruin.png) **[Dead Men's Respite](Skyrim_Dead_Men%27s_Respite.md)** — A small [Nordic ruin](Skyrim_Nordic_Ruins.md) southwest of [Morthal](Skyrim_Morthal.md) containing [draugr](Skyrim_Draugr.md) and [frostbite spiders](Skyrim_Frostbite_Spider.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Dead+Men%27s+Respite)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Ruin.png) **[Deepwood Redoubt](Skyrim_Deepwood_Redoubt.md)** — A large [Nordic ruin](Skyrim_Nordic_Ruins.md) west of [Dragon Bridge](Skyrim_Dragon_Bridge.md) containing [Forsworn](Skyrim_Forsworn.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Deepwood+Redoubt)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Ruin.png) **[Dustman's Cairn](Skyrim_Dustman%27s_Cairn.md)** — A medium-sized [Nordic ruin](Skyrim_Nordic_Ruins.md) northwest of [Whiterun](Skyrim_Whiterun.md) containing [Silver Hands](Skyrim_Silver_Hand.md), [draugr](Skyrim_Draugr.md), [frostbite spiders](Skyrim_Frostbite_Spider.md), and [skeevers](Skyrim_Skeever.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Dustman%27s+Cairn)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Ruin.png) **[Forelhost](Skyrim_Forelhost.md)** — A medium-sized [Nordic ruin](Skyrim_Nordic_Ruins.md) southeast of [Riften](Skyrim_Riften.md) containing [Dragon Cultists](Skyrim_Dragon_Cultist.md), [draugr](Skyrim_Draugr.md), [skeevers](Skyrim_Skeever.md), and the [dragon priest](Skyrim_Dragon_Priest.md) [Rahgot](Skyrim_Rahgot_(creature).md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Forelhost)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Ruin.png) **[Frostmere Crypt](Skyrim_Frostmere_Crypt.md)** — A medium-sized [Nordic ruin](Skyrim_Nordic_Ruins.md) south-southwest of [Dawnstar](Skyrim_Dawnstar.md) containing [bandits](Skyrim_Bandit.md) and the unique wispmother the [Pale Lady](Skyrim_The_Pale_Lady_(creature).md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Frostmere+Crypt)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Ruin.png) **[Geirmund's Hall](Skyrim_Geirmund%27s_Hall.md)** — A small [Nordic ruin](Skyrim_Nordic_Ruins.md) east of [Ivarstead](Skyrim_Ivarstead.md) containing [draugr](Skyrim_Draugr.md), [frostbite spiders](Skyrim_Frostbite_Spider.md), [skeevers](Skyrim_Skeever.md), and the draugr [Sigdis Gauldurson](Skyrim_Sigdis_Gauldurson.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Geirmund%27s+Hall)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Ruin.png) **[Hag Rock Redoubt](Skyrim_Hag_Rock_Redoubt.md)** — A small [Nordic ruin](Skyrim_Nordic_Ruins.md) south of [Markarth](Skyrim_Markarth.md) containing [Forsworn](Skyrim_Forsworn.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Hag+Rock+Redoubt)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Ruin.png) **[Hag's End](Skyrim_Hag%27s_End.md)** — A small [Nordic ruin](Skyrim_Nordic_Ruins.md) west of [Dragon Bridge](Skyrim_Dragon_Bridge.md) containing a [hagraven](Skyrim_Hagraven.md), [hags](Skyrim_Hag.md), and [witches](Skyrim_Witch.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Hag%27s+End)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Ruin.png) **[High Gate Ruins](Skyrim_High_Gate_Ruins.md)** — A medium-sized [Nordic ruin](Skyrim_Nordic_Ruins.md) west of [Dawnstar](Skyrim_Dawnstar.md) containing [draugr](Skyrim_Draugr.md) and the [dragon priest](Skyrim_Dragon_Priest.md) [Vokun](Skyrim_Vokun_(creature).md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=High+Gate+Ruins)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Ruin.png) **[Hillgrund's Tomb](Skyrim_Hillgrund%27s_Tomb.md)** — A small [Nordic ruin](Skyrim_Nordic_Ruins.md) southwest of [Windhelm](Skyrim_Windhelm.md) containing [draugr](Skyrim_Draugr.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Hillgrund%27s+Tomb)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Ruin.png) **[Ironbind Barrow](Skyrim_Ironbind_Barrow.md)** — A small [Nordic ruin](Skyrim_Nordic_Ruins.md) southwest of [Winterhold](Skyrim_Winterhold.md) containing [draugr](Skyrim_Draugr.md) and the tomb of [Warlord Gathrik](Skyrim_Warlord_Gathrik.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Ironbind+Barrow)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Ruin.png) **[Lost Valley Redoubt](Skyrim_Lost_Valley_Redoubt.md)** — A massive [Nordic ruin](Skyrim_Nordic_Ruins.md) inhabited by [Forsworn](Skyrim_Forsworn.md) and [hagravens](Skyrim_Hagraven.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Lost+Valley+Redoubt)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Ruin.png) **[Ragnvald](Skyrim_Ragnvald.md)** — A medium-sized [Nordic ruin](Skyrim_Nordic_Ruins.md) north of [Markarth](Skyrim_Markarth.md) containing [draugr](Skyrim_Draugr.md) and the [dragon priest](Skyrim_Dragon_Priest.md) [Otar the Mad](Skyrim_Otar_the_Mad.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Ragnvald)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Ruin.png) **[Rannveig's Fast](Skyrim_Rannveig%27s_Fast.md)** — A small [Nordic ruin](Skyrim_Nordic_Ruins.md) east-northeast of [Rorikstead](Skyrim_Rorikstead.md) containing [subjugated ghosts](Skyrim_Subjugated_Ghost.md) and [Sild the Warlock](Skyrim_Sild_the_Warlock.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Rannveig%27s+Fast)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Ruin.png) **[Saarthal](Skyrim_Saarthal.md)** — A medium-sized [Nordic ruin](Skyrim_Nordic_Ruins.md) southwest of [Winterhold](Skyrim_Winterhold.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Saarthal)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Ruin.png) **[Shriekwind Bastion](Skyrim_Shriekwind_Bastion.md)** — A small [Nordic ruin](Skyrim_Nordic_Ruins.md) north of [Falkreath](Skyrim_Falkreath.md) containing [vampires](Skyrim_Vampire.md) and [skeletons](Skyrim_Skeleton.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Shriekwind+Bastion)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Ruin.png) **[Shroud Hearth Barrow](Skyrim_Shroud_Hearth_Barrow.md)** — A medium-sized [Nordic ruin](Skyrim_Nordic_Ruins.md) east of [Ivarstead](Skyrim_Ivarstead.md) containing [draugr](Skyrim_Draugr.md) and [skeletons](Skyrim_Skeleton.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Shroud+Hearth+Barrow)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Ruin.png) **[Silent Moons Camp](Skyrim_Silent_Moons_Camp.md)** — A small [Nordic ruin](Skyrim_Nordic_Ruins.md) northwest of [Whiterun](Skyrim_Whiterun.md) containing [bandits](Skyrim_Bandit.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Silent+Moons+Camp)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Ruin.png) **[Silverdrift Lair](Skyrim_Silverdrift_Lair.md)** — A small [Nordic ruin](Skyrim_Nordic_Ruins.md) south-southeast of [Dawnstar](Skyrim_Dawnstar.md) containing [draugr](Skyrim_Draugr.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Silverdrift+Lair)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Ruin.png) **[Snow Veil Sanctum](Skyrim_Snow_Veil_Sanctum.md)** — A medium-sized [Nordic ruin](Skyrim_Nordic_Ruins.md) north-northeast of [Windhelm](Skyrim_Windhelm.md) containing [draugr](Skyrim_Draugr.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Snow+Veil+Sanctum)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Ruin.png) **[Ustengrav](Skyrim_Ustengrav.md)** — A medium-sized [Nordic ruin](Skyrim_Nordic_Ruins.md) northeast of [Morthal](Skyrim_Morthal.md) containing [bandits](Skyrim_Bandit.md), [warlocks](Skyrim_Warlock.md), [draugr](Skyrim_Draugr.md), [skeletons](Skyrim_Skeleton.md), and [frostbite spiders](Skyrim_Frostbite_Spider.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Ustengrav)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Ruin.png) **[Valthume](Skyrim_Valthume.md)** — A medium-sized [Nordic ruin](Skyrim_Nordic_Ruins.md) southeast of [Markarth](Skyrim_Markarth.md) containing [draugr](Skyrim_Draugr.md), [frostbite spiders](Skyrim_Frostbite_Spider.md), [skeevers](Skyrim_Skeever.md), and the [dragon priest](Skyrim_Dragon_Priest.md) [Hevnoraak](Skyrim_Hevnoraak_(creature).md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Valthume)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Ruin.png) **[Volskygge](Skyrim_Volskygge.md)** — A medium-sized [Nordic ruin](Skyrim_Nordic_Ruins.md) west of [Solitude](Skyrim_Solitude.md) containing [bandits](Skyrim_Bandit.md), [draugr](Skyrim_Draugr.md), [frostbite spiders](Skyrim_Frostbite_Spider.md), and the [dragon priest](Skyrim_Dragon_Priest.md) [Volsung](Skyrim_Volsung_(creature).md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Volskygge)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Ruin.png) **[Yngol Barrow](Skyrim_Yngol_Barrow.md)** — A small [Nordic ruin](Skyrim_Nordic_Ruins.md) northeast of [Windhelm](Skyrim_Windhelm.md) containing the [shade](Skyrim_Yngol%27s_Shade.md) of an ancient Nord warrior. [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Yngol+Barrow)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Ruin.png) **[Ysgramor's Tomb](Skyrim_Ysgramor%27s_Tomb.md)** — A small [Nordic ruin](Skyrim_Nordic_Ruins.md) northwest of [Winterhold](Skyrim_Winterhold.md) containing [Companion ghosts](Skyrim_Companion_Ghost.md), [frostbite spiders](Skyrim_Frostbite_Spider.md), and [skeevers](Skyrim_Skeever.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Ysgramor%27s+Tomb)

### Passes
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Pass.png) **[Cold Rock Pass](Skyrim_Cold_Rock_Pass.md)** — A small [passage](Skyrim_Caves.md) through a mountain south-southwest of [Morthal](Skyrim_Morthal.md) containing a [frost troll](Skyrim_Frost_Troll.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Cold+Rock+Pass)

### Shacks
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Shack.png) **[Ironback Hideout](Skyrim_Ironback_Hideout.md)** — A dilapidated house to the northwest of [Solitude](Skyrim_Solitude.md), a short distance east of [The Steed Stone](Skyrim_The_Steed_Stone.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Ironback+Hideout)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Shack.png) **[Pinewatch](Skyrim_Pinewatch.md)** — A [shack](Skyrim_Shacks.md) northeast of [Falkreath](Skyrim_Falkreath.md) containing [bandits](Skyrim_Bandit.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Pinewatch)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Shack.png) **[Redwater Den](Skyrim_Redwater_Den.md)**<sup>[DG](Skyrim_Dawnguard.md)</sup> — A [shack](Skyrim_Shacks.md) northwest of [Riften](Skyrim_Riften.md) containing [bandits](Skyrim_Bandit.md) and [vampires](Skyrim_Vampire.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Redwater+Den+%28DG%29)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Shack.png) **[Riverside Shack](Skyrim_Riverside_Shack.md)** — A small shack east of [Gallows Rock](Skyrim_Gallows_Rock.md) and west-southwest of [Kynesgrove](Skyrim_Kynesgrove.md), along the eastern bank of the [White River](Skyrim_White_River.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Riverside+Shack)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Shack.png) **[Traitor's Post](Skyrim_Traitor%27s_Post.md)** — A crumbling [shack](Skyrim_Shacks.md) and [bandit](Skyrim_Bandit.md) outpost east of [Windhelm](Skyrim_Windhelm.md), and just north of the [Sacellum of Boethiah](Skyrim_Sacellum_of_Boethiah.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Traitor%27s+Post)

### Ships
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Shipwreck.png) **[Hela's Folly](Skyrim_Hela%27s_Folly.md)** — A [shipwreck](Skyrim_Shipwrecks.md) northeast of [Dawnstar](Skyrim_Dawnstar.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Hela%27s+Folly)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Shipwreck.png) **[Orphan's Tear](Skyrim_Orphan%27s_Tear.md)** — A [shipwreck](Skyrim_Shipwrecks.md) west of [Ravenscar Hollow](Skyrim_Ravenscar_Hollow.md) on the northern coast. [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Orphan%27s+Tear)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Shipwreck.png) **[Wreck of The Pride of Tel Vos](Skyrim_Wreck_of_The_Pride_of_Tel_Vos.md)** — A [shipwreck](Skyrim_Shipwrecks.md) on a small island east of [Winterhold](Skyrim_Winterhold.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Wreck+of+The+Pride+of+Tel+Vos)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Shipwreck.png) **[Wreck of the Winter War](Skyrim_Wreck_of_the_Winter_War.md)** — A [shipwreck](Skyrim_Shipwrecks.md) east-southeast of [Snow Veil Sanctum](Skyrim_Snow_Veil_Sanctum.md) and far northeast of [Windhelm](Skyrim_Windhelm.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=Skyrim&centeron=Wreck+of+the+Winter+War)

### Solstheim<sup>[DB](Skyrim_Dragonborn.md)</sup>
With the [Dragonborn](Skyrim_Dragonborn.md) add-on, you may need to travel to [Solstheim](Skyrim_Solstheim.md) and visit one of the dungeons there.

- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Landmark.png) **[Altar of Thrond](Skyrim_Altar_of_Thrond.md)**<sup>[DB](Skyrim_Dragonborn.md)</sup> — A [landmark](Skyrim_Landmarks.md) west of the [Temple of Miraak](Skyrim_Temple_of_Miraak.md) next to a small cave containing [hagravens](Skyrim_Hagraven.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=solstheim&centeron=Altar+of+Thrond)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Fort.png) **[Ashfallow Citadel](Skyrim_Ashfallow_Citadel.md)**<sup>[DB](Skyrim_Dragonborn.md)</sup> — A small Imperial [fort](Skyrim_Military_Forts.md) east of [Highpoint Tower](Skyrim_Highpoint_Tower.md) and northwest of the [Sun Stone](Skyrim_Sun_Stone.md) being used as a base of operations by the [Morag Tong](Skyrim_Morag_Tong.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=solstheim&centeron=Ashfallow+Citadel)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Benkongerike](Skyrim_Benkongerike.md)**<sup>[DB](Skyrim_Dragonborn.md)</sup> — A medium-sized [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) southeast of [Saering's Watch](Skyrim_Saering%27s_Watch.md) containing [bristlebacks](Skyrim_Bristleback.md) and [rieklings](Skyrim_Riekling.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=solstheim&centeron=Benkongerike)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Ruin.png) **[Bloodskal Barrow](Skyrim_Bloodskal_Barrow.md)**<sup>[DB](Skyrim_Dragonborn.md)</sup> — A small [Nordic ruin](Skyrim_Nordic_Ruins.md) north of [Raven Rock](Skyrim_Raven_Rock.md) containing [reavers](Skyrim_Reaver.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=solstheim&centeron=Bloodskal+Barrow)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Landmark.png) **[Brodir Grove](Skyrim_Brodir_Grove.md)**<sup>[DB](Skyrim_Dragonborn.md)</sup> — A small circle of stones northeast of [Raven Rock](Skyrim_Raven_Rock.md) containing [reavers](Skyrim_Reaver.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=solstheim&centeron=Brodir+Grove)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Mine.png) **[Broken Tusk Mine](Skyrim_Broken_Tusk_Mine.md)**<sup>[DB](Skyrim_Dragonborn.md)</sup> — A small [heart stone](Skyrim_Heart_Stone.md) [mine](Skyrim_Mines.md) north of [Raven Rock](Skyrim_Raven_Rock.md) containing [rieklings](Skyrim_Riekling.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=solstheim&centeron=Broken+Tusk+Mine)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Cave.png) **[Coldcinder Cave](Skyrim_Coldcinder_Cave.md)**<sup>[DB](Skyrim_Dragonborn.md)</sup> — A small [cave](Skyrim_Caves.md) southeast of [Raven Rock](Skyrim_Raven_Rock.md) containing [ash spawn](Skyrim_Ash_Spawn.md) and [netches](Skyrim_Netch.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=solstheim&centeron=Coldcinder+Cave)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Mine.png) **[Damphall Mine](Skyrim_Damphall_Mine.md)**<sup>[DB](Skyrim_Dragonborn.md)</sup> — A small [iron](Skyrim_Iron.md) and [silver](Skyrim_Silver.md) [mine](Skyrim_Mines.md) north of [Raven Rock](Skyrim_Raven_Rock.md) containing [reavers](Skyrim_Reaver.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=solstheim&centeron=Damphall+Mine)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Dwemer.png) **[Fahlbtharz](Skyrim_Fahlbtharz.md)**<sup>[DB](Skyrim_Dragonborn.md)</sup> — A large [Dwarven ruin](Skyrim_Dwarven_Ruins.md) east of the [Water Stone](Skyrim_Water_Stone.md) containing [rieklings](Skyrim_Riekling.md), [albino spiders](Skyrim_Albino_Spider.md), [oil spiders](Skyrim_Oil_Spider_(creature).md), and [Dwarven automatons](Skyrim_Dwarven_Automatons.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=solstheim&centeron=Fahlbtharz)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Landmark.png) **[Horker Island](Skyrim_Horker_Island.md)**<sup>[DB](Skyrim_Dragonborn.md)</sup> — A large island east of [Skaal Village](Skyrim_Skaal_Village.md) occupied by [horkers](Skyrim_Horker.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=solstheim&centeron=Horker+Island)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Shack.png) **[Hrodulf's House](Skyrim_Hrodulf%27s_House.md)**<sup>[DB](Skyrim_Dragonborn.md)</sup> — An abandoned [shack](Skyrim_Dragonborn_Places.md#Shacks) southwest of [Fort Frostmoth](Skyrim_Fort_Frostmoth.md) and southeast of [Kolbjorn Barrow](Skyrim_Kolbjorn_Barrow.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=solstheim&centeron=Hrodulf%27s+House)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Dragon_Lair.png) **[Saering's Watch](Skyrim_Saering%27s_Watch.md)**<sup>[DB](Skyrim_Dragonborn.md)</sup> — A [dragon lair](Skyrim_Dragon_Lairs.md) in the shadow of [Frykte Peak](Skyrim_Frykte_Peak.md) on [Solstheim](Lore_Solstheim.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=solstheim&centeron=Saering%27s+Watch)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Nordic_Ruin.png) **[White Ridge Barrow](Skyrim_White_Ridge_Barrow.md)**<sup>[DB](Skyrim_Dragonborn.md)</sup> — A medium-sized [Nordic ruin](Skyrim_Nordic_Ruins.md) in the northern part of Solstheim inhabited by [bandits](Skyrim_Bandit.md) and [spiders](Skyrim_Spiders.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=solstheim&centeron=White+Ridge+Barrow)
- [](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/File:SR-mapicon-Shipwreck.png) **[Wreck of the Strident Squall](Skyrim_Wreck_of_the_Strident_Squall.md)**<sup>[DB](Skyrim_Dragonborn.md)</sup> — A [shipwreck](Skyrim_Shipwrecks.md) south-southeast of [Raven Rock](Skyrim_Raven_Rock.md) containing [reavers](Skyrim_Reaver.md). [(map)](https://gamemap.uesp.net/sr/?world=solstheim&centeron=Wreck+of+the+Strident+Squall)

## Notes
- The radiant location of some quests is determined upon game start, not when the quest appears in your log; you cannot reload an old save to re-roll a different location.
- Similarly, some quests are activated immediately upon completion of the previous one, before you claim your reward, so only reloading a save from before that will give a different target; simply reloading before speaking to the quest-giver won't (i.e. you will have to complete another radiant quest before you can see what target has been selected for the next quest).
- NPCs and locations added by [mods](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Skyrim_Mod:Mods) or [add-ons](Skyrim_Add-ons.md) can be assigned as targets or givers in radiant quests if they fit the parameters for the given quest. - If a quest has been assigned to a target on [Solstheim](Skyrim_Solstheim.md)<sup>[DB](Skyrim_Dragonborn.md)</sup> or any other new lands added by mods, there will be no quest markers while you are on mainland Skyrim. The converse is also true; if you are on Solstheim or a new land, there will be no markers pointing to Skyrim.
- Randomly generated quest locations do not take your character's level into account, so it is possible to be given a radiant quest target in a dungeon that has a minimum level well above yours.
- Only one type of these radiant quests can be active at a time: - **[A Few Words with You](Skyrim_A_Few_Words_with_You.md)**: Do a favor by talking to someone about a problem.
- **[Delivery](Skyrim_Delivery.md)**: Deliver an item to an associate.
- **[Dungeon Delving (Bandits)](Skyrim_Dungeon_Delving_(Bandits).md)**: Do a favor by retrieving an item from a bandit hideout.
- **[Dungeon Delving (Caves)](Skyrim_Dungeon_Delving_(Caves).md)**: Do a favor by retrieving an item from a cave.
- **[Kill the Bandit Leader](Skyrim_Kill_the_Bandit_Leader.md)**: Do a favor by slaying a bandit leader.
- **[Rare Gifts](Skyrim_Rare_Gifts.md)**: Do a favor by finding a rare item.
- **[Some Light Theft](Skyrim_Some_Light_Theft.md)**: Do a favor by stealing an item.

## See Also
- [Oblivion:Radiant](https://en.uesp.net/wiki/Oblivion:Radiant)